---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: MARIA_MAGDELENA.jpg
photo_credit: Shima Green
title: MARIA MAGDALENA
first_performed: first performed on February 14, 2014
place: Union Square Subway Station, New York, NY
times_performed: performed over six months in 2014
contributor: QWEEN AMOR
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY
links:
- facebook.com/qweenamor
contact: qweenamor@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- body
- dance
- durational performance
- experience
- female
- feminine
- gender nonconformity
- Madonna
- male
- Maria Magdalena
- Mary Magdalene
- music
- nakedness
- nudity
- queer
- religion
- spirituality
- truth
- United States of America
- Virgin Mary
pages: 032-033
---

“Maria Magdalena” is a piece I took through America which establishes the image of The Madonna and brings her to life. I started the dance in Washington, DC and then took it to New York City, Philadelphia, Las Vegas and California. This was a long durational piece which took a year to complete in full effect. I danced on various street corners to an eclectic music selection that included everything from Rock ‘n’ Roll (Tom Petty, Queen, Aerosmith) to Pop (Lady Gaga, Madonna, Cher). All music that was chosen portrayed aspects of feminine divinity and wisdom. I relayed a message of freedom, not by speaking about freedom but by BEING FREE. The performance was a celebration of life that everyone was welcome to.

The dance was done partly naked to express the beauty of the human body. The audience experienced the performance interactively as they were moved to dance and join the celebration for a moment of bliss and freedom. Blurring the line between male and female, this performance included gender nonconformity and sought to introduce to society the Queer nature of being human. “Maria Magdalena” offers a truth that cannot be spoken, a spiritual message that must be felt and experienced in order to be understood. Without the direct experience, it is subject to misunderstanding, persecution and demonization.
