---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: TALK_OF_THE_TOWN.jpg
photo_credit: courtesy the artists
title: 'TALK OF THE TOWN: RELATIONAL MARCH'
first_performed: first performed on February 28, 2014
place: Hole in the Sky, Washington D.C.
times_performed: performed 33 times in 2014
contributor: ESTHER NEFF, BRIAN MCCORKLE / EDWARD G SHARP, DAVID IAN GRIESS
collaborators:
- PANOPLY PERFORMANCE LABORATORY / FUTURE DEATH TOLL
home: Brooklyn, NY / Portland, OR
links: []
contact: panoplylab@gmail.com / info@futuredeathtoll.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- award ceremony
- bowling ball
- custom musical instruments
- feedback
- interview
- mess
- participation
- relationality
- song
- touring
- travel
- wish
pages: 046-047
---

Panoply Performance Laboratory travelled with Future Death Toll across 23 cities, making individual relational acts of performance and acting out processes of touring. People were met, interviews performed, BBQ eaten, McDonalds visited, bowling balls taped to feet, snow melted, frozen lakes trespassed, participations conducted, songs written and sung, relational aesthetics problematized, all interspersed with much driving in a rental car.

ZOMG / it’s important to consider the aesthetics of the cablez. / im w/ u on this. i’m with you on that. I am with you on this thing which you have indicated to be important and which I agree with. D’Accord. / taco the town /  / it’s important. to consider the aesthetics of the bags. /  / whyexittherealisitbentperfectly ? /  / imtaking an INformal poll—/ should there be nudity in this performance? / im taking an informal poll- / should there be nudity in this performance? / *it’s something important to consider /  / i placed the black bag on top of brian’s head and then he put the mic up to the instrument (a simple osc that he built) and it had a lot of feedback. i kind of wish we had given out ear plugz to everyone before we started. sorry. / playing a role / or is it like /  / roll of the dice as / someone here says / \ /  / then / them /  / see  / sight o for  / sight / site / or /  / suture / or situate /  / w / what  / w/ / w/. / w/ / w/ what / left to their / own  / dices /  / what does the /  / roller player / doe? /  / is it just a deer thing /  / a dear / a dear / why cant you do /  / what you planned / why cant /  / you plan it /  / out /  / plan it out / before / you try it /  / ok? /  / it’s just common sense / its fucking ranciere ok? /  / why can’t you fucking take on the situation /  / as something sacred? /  / ok? /  / it is > / greater than you / you have no agency here / your mess / now / lay in it /  / ok /  / ok? / this is the award ceremony part /  / are you smoking? /  / what is your name? /  / is this real? / it is very nice out today. / david turned the distorto pedal on and off.
