---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: BE_EXCESSIVE!.jpg
photo_credit: Peter Olson
title: BE EXCESSIVE!
first_performed: first performed on April 3, 2014
place: Northern Illinois University Art Museum, DeKalb, IL
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: ROBERT REED
collaborators: []
home: Honolulu, HI / New York, NY
links:
- fabulousrobertreed.com
contact: bertie2lulu@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- consumption
- cooking
- excess
- feeding
- flag
- food
- mirror
- song
- Twitter
- United States of America
- water
pages: 066-067
---

“BE EXCESSIVE!” was performed for the reception of the exhibition Hoarding, Amassing and Excess. It addressed our battle to reverse the destruction of land, air, water, health and culture in the United States due to excessive consumption and product promotion. I sat in the middle of the room with a sequined American flag over my head while people viewed the artwork. I was wearing a green body suit underneath a pair of sequined American flag shorts and matching bustier. I also had on go-go boots covered in disco ball mirrors and a pair of glasses shaped like dollar signs. I loudly moaned and threw litter about the room and sang a parody of “Bein’ Green” followed by parodies of iconic American songs. For example, “If I Had a Hammer” became: “If I had a baby, I’d buy him a happy meal. I’d supersize his cola all over Disneyland. I’d ring out danger and give him a handgun. I’d tweet out hate between my brothers and my sisters and be too busy to give a damn.”

This led into the song “America The Beautiful,” ending with the verse “from sea to shining”…”Gimme a C! Gimme an O! Gimme an N! Gimme an S! Gimme a U! Gimme an M! Gimme an E! What does it spell? CONSUME! Go CONSUME! Go HOARDING! GO AMASSING!”

I then reached into my bustier to grab pompoms made from fast food wrappers and cheered, “E-X-C-E-S-S-I-V-E! BE EXCESSIVE, BE, BE EXCESSIVE! What do we want? EVERYTHING! When do we want it? NOW! What do we waste? EVERYTHING! When do we regret it? NOW!”

I ended by dancing around singing the 70’s disco hit, “More, More, More, how do you like it, how do you like it?”
