---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: ACTION_27___ELIXIR.jpg
photo_credit: Olivia Themoudo
title: ACTION 27 / ELIXIR
first_performed: first performed on April 11, 2014
place: The Gallery at UTA, Arlington, TX
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: ALISON STARR
collaborators:
- Wesley Salazar
- Uzoma Attah
- Lita Bush
- Paula Tabares
- Lindsay Lookingbill
- Matt Clark
- Ezra Thomas
home: Dallas, TX
links:
- astarrstudios.wordpress.com
contact: alison@alisonstarr.org
footnote: ''
tags:
- absurdity
- cooking
- feeding
- food cabbage
- Foucault, Michel
- gallery
- hair
- mystical power
- painting
- ritual
- scenography
- set design
- text
pages: 074-075
---

Foucault mentioned in one of his texts that the wondrous cabbage often appears in paintings. Why the cabbage? Many write that its mystical powers have the potential to aid us in times of intense desire and need. Thus this interesting yet absurd idea inspires this equally absurd performance that looks at the mystical powers of the cabbage.

An acrylic pedestal is set in a gallery room. Because there is no “set stage” viewers simply gather around. An entourage enters the room: a barefoot King Ezra wearing a red silk bathrobe, white tank-top and hair awry is followed by attendant one (carrying a white cabbage head atop a velvet pillow) and attendant two (carrying a large antique cleaver). The king stands behind the acrylic pedestal and the attendants flank to the right and left of him. Atop a 13 ft ladder is the jester who chooses lovers for the king. First choice is a lovely lady with long brown hair. But the king is not interested and she is banished from the space. Second choice is a handsome man dressed in fine attire. Yet alas, he too is banished from the room. Finally the jester chooses a blond, long legged young woman wearing a dull sweater. Once presented to the king the jester flings off her sweater to reveal a svelte body. Pleased the king gives her a thumbs-up and the ritual begins. Attendant one brings the cabbage and attendant two brings the cleaver. The king—while watching the blonde bombshell—chops the head of cabbage before her eyes, nearly missing his finger. The king then slowly and calculatingly slices smaller pieces of cabbage on the pedestal. Once the entire head is cut into very small portions, the attendants are directed to pick up every single slice and place them in a fur pouch that resembles a vagina. The vagina bag is given to the blond who must stand there for several minutes while the king and attendants leave the room. Five minutes later the king returns, flinging off his silk robe and escorts the bombshell out.
