---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: SUNSET_OVER_THE_RUINS_OF_THE_PLASTER_HOTEL.jpg
photo_credit: Monika Sobczak
title: SUNSET OVER THE RUINS OF THE PLASTER HOTEL
first_performed: first performed on May 30, 2014
place: POST galerija, Kaunas, Lithuania
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: DAVID FRANKOVICH
collaborators: []
home: Helsinki, Finland / Toronto, Canada
links:
- davidfrankovich.com
contact: contact@davidfrankovich.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- architecture
- camp
- cinema
- film
- gallery
- queer
- Smith, Jack
- Soviet Union
- t-shirt
pages: 140-141
---

I stand on a wooden box wearing a gold t-shirt, my arms outstretched in front of me. In my right hand I hold a wooden picture frame. In my left hand I hold an egg. A chair is positioned to my right so that if someone sits in it their perspective will line up the picture frame and egg with the window of the gallery and an unfinished hotel in the distance, which has been abandoned since the end of Soviet rule in Lithuania. I hold this position as long as possible, until the egg slips from my hand. When the egg hits the floor, it breaks and gold glitter spills out. I carefully balance the picture frame on the floor so that it frames the broken egg.

This piece was created during the PAS # 35 \| Resistance workshop, at the CREATurE Live Art Festival in Kaunas, Lithuania. During my time there, I was fascinated by the Soviet architecture throughout the city. One building in particular stood out, unfinished and abandoned, looming over the Kaunas skyline. This building was clearly visible from around the city, including from the windows of POST galerija, where the workshop was taking place. So the architecture of that building, with large circular holes running up the side became the inspiration for my piece.

The gallery’s architecture, with regular rectangular windows evenly spaced along one wall also inspired me as it reminded me of a film strip and my background as an experimental filmmaker. I began to think of how my film work might influence my performance work. In particular, I thought of how Jack Smith’s work in film and performance had influenced me, and how I might be able to evoke a camp sensibility using only the materials I had available to me. The piece became about using minimal action and material to hint at some sort of queer possibility lying beyond the concrete ruins that served as its backdrop.
