---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: WHAT_DO_YOU_WISH_FOR.jpg
photo_credit: Taylor Moore
title: WHAT DO YOU WISH FOR?
first_performed: first performed on June 28, 2014
place: Lumen 2014 Video and Performance Art Festival, Staten Island, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: DAY DE DADA PERFORMANCE ART COLLECTIVE
collaborators: []
home: Staten Island, NY
links:
- DayDeDada.com
contact: daydedada@yahoo.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- ceremony
- desire
- magic
- performance artist,
- photograph
- seed
- wish
- writing
pages: 178-179
---

The Day de Dada Wish Sisters collected wishes from the Lumen festival attendees from 7- 9 pm and then released the wishes into the world in a ceremony at 10 pm. Each Wish Sister collected wishes in a different way. Milenka Berengolc took instant photos which she later performed reiki on, Mary Campbell supplied a fountain for coins to be tossed into, Margaret Chase supplied beads to be attached to a string, Viv de Dada had people whisper in her ear and then she transferred the wish to her bottle, Leslie Lowe gave people fans to write on, Barbara Lubliner with her magic wand and box, Tamara Wyndham had participants write on stars and Lydia Grey had seeds to plant. Some approached festival attendees while others waited for curious attendees to approach them. All were dressed in white robes with gold accessories. A sticker with the saying “Be careful what you wish” was given to participants. At the release ceremony we circled a fire in a cauldron that had been created for us and one at a time dispersed the wishes.

The Lumen performance inspired participants to consider a wish that is important to them and then reveal it. We believe there is great power in a disclosed wish as it begins an energy movement. Thinking, writing and revealing a wish helps one to recognize themselves and prioritize their actions. Related to hope, wishes become a constant reminder of how life can be better. Our performance intended to encourage contemplation of goals and desires. Many people took the action very seriously as they closed their eyes, concentrated and took a deep breath before making their wish. Our performance highlighted an action that people may often do in a time of stress or pessimism but we gave them an opportunity in this scenario to take a moment for themselves and acknowledge their dreams. We are interested in creating these kinds of positive moments in our performance.
