---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: EX-VOTO,_OR_SYMPTO_OF_POTENTIAL_DEFAULT.jpg
photo_credit: Joan Casellas Arxiu Aire Archive
title: EX-VOTO, OR, SYMPTO OF POTENTIAL DEFAULT
first_performed: first performed on September 13, 2014
place: Muga Caula International Performance Festival, Les Caules, Spain
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: VALENTINE VERHAEGHE
collaborators:
- montagnefroide.org / valentineverhaeghe.com
home: Besançon, France
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- disappearance of bees
- Duchamp, Marcel
- encounter
- mask
- natural environment
- success
- water
pages: 248-249
---

This performance took place in a small village in the north of Spain, in Catalonia, at the invitation of MUGA CAULA EVENT and produced by Catalonian artist Joan Casellas. This festival is dedicated to Marcel Duchamp in memory of his visit to the region, and more precisely for his interest for La Muga Caula waterfall. I attach importance to the context in which my action takes place: here the natural environment has a feeling of isolation; the incredible involvement of the inhabitants of this small village ensure the success of this international festival. Thus, my performance can be compared to a force field interacting with the feeling of the place, the people and personal encounters; I test out the global situation in its constant changes.

For this action, I asked two members of the audience to participate. I wanted to work on imbalance—or how to play with gravity—while I was making my way across the village’s main square. I led the two spectators into a mad race forward while leaning on them to avert a fall. For the second part of the performance, I had made a sort of paper mask resembling the leather hoods used in falconry to temporarily blind the birds. This mask, placed on my head, became a sort of legible surface. It was made of newspaper and one of the articles on the page I had used was about the disappearance of bees. I was in a state of insecurity only vaguely in terms of being able to distinguish my surroundings; I was at once in communion with the audience and at their mercy.

Translated from French by Peggy Tyrode.
