---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: KEY-STORIES_UNKNOWN_FRIENDS.jpg
photo_credit: Sulieman Abdulla
title: KEY-STORIES / UNKNOWN FRIENDS
first_performed: first performed on September 27, 2014
place: Public Space in the District of Neos Kosmos, Athens, Greece
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: KATRIN WÖLGER
collaborators: []
home: Vienna, Austria
links:
- katrinamuri.net
contact: bureau@katrinamuri.net
footnote: ''
tags:
- chance encounter
- city
- danger
- military
- outdoor
- performance artist,
- urban space
- violence
pages: 266-267
---

…tough as a pirate…

Welcome to the island!

No suitcases, bathing suits, sun lotions!

What you have on your body and maybe personal belongings of emotional value.

You stay some time and then go on. It is not a comforting place.

It is lonely on the island. Inhospitable.

If there were not little escapes in the escape to comfort you, where you find some relief to breathe, you might give up. But you are tough as a pirate.

As soon as possible you want to start a new life.

Maybe away from your comrades with whom you experienced violence, aggression, escape and danger.

You have had enough adventures.

Time to arrive.

“KEYSTORIES / UNKNOWN FRIENDS”

was designed for “Dourgouti Island Hotel,” a project about urban solitude, a neighborhood festival, which intended to bring together time and people, a two-day outdoors local creative-works festival on three adjacent places. The festival included performance art, theatre, dance, exhibition, walks, music all inspired by the yesterday, today or tomorrow of the neighborhood.

“KEYSTORIES / UNKNOWN FRIENDS”

a participatory performance in two parts

Preparation:

> Live in the area

> Find intangible treasures such as a remembrance, a story, a look, a glance, an encounter

> Mark the territory

“KEYSTORIES”

>keys on a pigeon-defense-skirt

>brushwood on head

>handing out keys

(what is this? this is a key. what for? to open a door. which door? a door, which is closed for you.)

“UNKNOWN FRIENDS”

>would you mind to be my friend for a second?

>may my friend take a picture of us?

This intervention will be continued throughout several places in 2015/2016.
