---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: RESONANT_TRACES.jpg
photo_credit: Emily Harris
title: RESONANT TRACES
first_performed: first performed on September 27, 2014
place: Union Street Studio, LLC, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: EMILY HARRIS / JONATHAN ZORN
collaborators:
- Sam Morrison
home: New York, NY / Boston, MA
links: []
contact: emily.mharris@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- architecture
- collaboration
- design
- duration
- game
- installation
- object
- private performance
- relationality
- score
- song
- sonic
- text
- writing
pages: 268-269
---

“Resonant Traces,” a collaboration with sound artist Jonathan Zorn, was a series of private performances and installation aimed at exploring the sonic characteristics of the architectural/design studio. Zorn and I devised a general game-form for writing scores. Each score would include an action, object, location, relation and duration. The objects were found within the studio or an everyday object we had brought along. After listening and making note of different sound qualities and sources, we, together with composer Sam Morrison, generated and compiled a series of text scores on index cards: “Drop beanbags from all heights in anticipation of an airplane,” “Tap all surfaces with any object in the rhythm of chirping birds,” “Spread balloons throughout. First person pops a balloon, second and third people silently count to thirty and then pop balloons. Continue until there are no more balloons.” Rubbing, sliding, kicking, blowing, humming, tapping, dropping, popping in different locations, we explored the building’s surface materials, reverberation potentials, architectural layout and sound’s permeation connecting exterior and interior sonic aspects of the space: airplane traffic, a neighbor’s band saw, bird song, contingencies between performers, sound textures, reflexes and relational distances and durations. Fashioned as a game, we anticipated that it would open up a field of play and experimentation.
