---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: ONE_HOUR_OF_FREE_HELP.jpg
photo_credit: Marieke Warmelink
title: ONE HOUR OF FREE HELP
first_performed: first performed on October 9, 2014
place: Art in Odd Places, Union Square, New York, NY
times_performed: performed for ten days in 2014
contributor: EMBASSY OF GOODWILL / MARIEKE WARMELINK, DOMENIQUE HIMMELSBACH DE VRIES
collaborators:
- Amsterdam
- The Netherlands
home: ''
links: []
contact: info@mariekewarmelink.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- information
- interaction
- knowledge
- Netherlands
- participation
- personal story
- race
- safe haven
- safe space
- sewing
- socially engaged art
pages: 300-301
---

In the performance “One Hour of Free Help,” Embassy of Goodwill offers one hour of free help.

The aim of Embassy of Goodwill is to raise the social image of The Netherlands by offering one hour of free help to locals and passerby in different places in the world. The Netherlands used to be known as a safe haven for individuals who think differently. However, in the past ten to fifteen years the country has been dominated by a growing fear of dissidents which has resulted in a fertile ground for negativity. We, Domenique Himmelsbach de Vries and Marieke Warmelink, two socially engaged artists based in the Netherlands, share our expertise, experience and knowledge on a personal level to raise the social reputation.

By giving free help in different places in the world, we reach out to those in need, regardless of nationality, background, class, race or ethnicity. By doing so we collect vital experiences, personal stories and information that investigate the needs of local people. Our approach is based on the voice of the public. Through interaction and participation we analyze and map out these different needs. This working method has become an important source of information for policymakers. In this way the outcome is much more than just a performative based work. It shows its positive effects in society on a day to day level.

Examples of free help we offer/perform:

Brainstorming, solving problems, renovating houses, gardening, vegetarian/vegan cooking for individuals or groups, designing posters, video editing, taking initiative, organizing, repairing bicycles, screen printing, glass cutting, welding, photography, sewing, teaching, basic computer help, welcoming guests at your house party, giving advice, playing new wave at your party.
