---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: EXPERIENCE;_TO_EXPERIENCE.jpg
photo_credit: Ahmed Ozsever
title: EXPERIENCE; TO EXPERIENCE (2.57142857143°)
first_performed: first performed on October 15, 2014
place: Just Be Cause, Ithaca, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: AHMED OZSEVER
collaborators: []
home: Ithaca, NY
links:
- ahmedozsever.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- choreography
- digital media
- duration
- embodiment
- history
- language
- machine
- memory
- narrative
- noise
- poetry
- projection
- surprise
- technology
- tension
- video
pages: 308-309
---

“Experience; to Experience” is a video, image and sound performance. The piece is in response to the idea of ‘experience’ as a means of decoding history through memory—as opposed to merely chronological documents—and the resulting speculative evolution of the word ‘experience’ from active to passive. The work is two simultaneous and choreographed (rear) projections; one digital video and the other 35mm slides. Both machines were operated live and the narratives told by both create a tension between the perceived passivity of the technologically contemporary video projection and the—simultaneously memorial and discarded—carousel slide projection. The soundtrack serves to syncopate the imagery and create an artificial time scale. The slide projector reverberated loudly throughout the space while a second audio track played through a PA built up as though generations of sound were piling on one another, creating a cacophony of rhythmic ambient noise. Each image in the slideshow has been reclaimed, written upon with the associations of the shifting language of experience, and when read together holds the structure of a concrete poem in three verses, each of which repeat. The rhythm of the slides holds steady (with the exception of human error) throughout the first reading, while upon second revolution each word holds a specific duration making it autonomous from the others. This serves as a way to associate the changing associations in the mind, an ‘after image’ of association based upon the weight of the words themselves. The videos, which interact with the slide projection and sound elements, embody three different types of experience; from surprise to the collected or generational to transformative or long-term.
