---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: EYEVOICESCENSE.jpg
photo_credit: Matthew Klane
title: EYEVOICESCENSE
first_performed: first performed on October 17, 2014
place: Albany Center Gallery, Albany, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: GEOF HUTH
collaborators: []
home: Schenectady, New York
links:
- dbqp.blogspot.com
contact: geofhuth@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- information
- photograph
- poetry
- reading
- sculpture
- song
- text
pages: 316-317
---

This performance consisted of seven sections to allow me to present seven different poetries for the audience to experience and to increase the possibility of reaching the audience with a tangible, memorable experience. The performance also had to engage within the space it inhabited, one filled with sculptural assemblages that worked similarly to the way that the performance accumulated disparate pieces of poetry into a cohesive but divergent experience.

I. Myology, Plate XIV: The performance began with a reading of a full-color visual poem, written in English and an asemic script.

II. Six Pwoermds: I then read six one-word poems slowly, allowing the audience to read and reinterpret these tiny poems.

III. Undelete: The only poem in the canonical form of a poem was a long textual poem filled with irregular repetition. I wandered through the audience while performing this, always moving their attention to another spot in the room.

IV. In Their Collected Beauty: I read aloud one small corked bottle filled with marbles and two metal letters (#9 of this sequence of bottle poems) and handed it to one member of the audience, motioning for her to pass the poem through the audience. I then picked up #10 from this series, filled mostly with glass, read its brief text, handed it to another audience member, and he looked at it and passed it through the audience.

V. Spokepoem: My next poem was merely a poem spoken extemporaneously and beginning with information from the biographies of the others performing that night, a poem made out of where my thoughts went.

VI. Four Polarrhoids: I read four poems, each in the shape of a Polaroid photograph with a single-word caption.

VII. Poemsong: I ended with a song, sung in no language at all, something loud that rang through the audience. At times, I pointed my voice to the ceiling of that small space so that its sound would fall back hard upon the audience.
