---
layout: project
volume: '2014'
image: STREET_VIEWS.jpg
photo_credit: Annie Berman
title: STREET VIEWS
first_performed: first performed on November 12, 2014
place: KulturBahnhof Kassel, Kassel, Germany
times_performed: performed once in 2014
contributor: ANNIE BERMAN
collaborators:
- "(Music) Goto80 and the Uwe Schenk Band; Ghost Hunter; Augustus Bro & Gallery Six"
- "(Assistance) Diana Trushell"
- Mariya Chelova
home: NY, NY
links:
- twitter.com/ANNIE_BERMAN
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- Google Maps
- interaction
- mask
- photograph
- presence
- privacy
- projection
- self portrait
pages: 350-351
---

This piece concerns presence and performance and plays with the idea of a virtual presence. The artist was invited to Kassel to exhibit work. The artist’s presence is marked by a sign that reads, “The Artist is Present.” A red Google location identifier appears on the sign. This same icon appears above a flat screen monitor among the viewers. The monitor is oriented vertically and displays a portrait of the artist, her face blurred out. A microphone points towards the screen. Emanating from the screen is the artist’s voice. She is narrating the piece projected on the opposite wall. The projected piece entitled “STREET VIEWS” is an eight minute loop of scenes from Google’s mapping application. The projected image meets the floor. The navigation arrows continue on the floor into the space itself. On the wall is an offering—brightly colored hand-cut masks on colored sticks made by enlarging a small figure from Seurat’s “Sunday in the Park.” A handwritten sign reads: “Take one. Privacy masks.” Visitors take masks; a group of art students wear the masks, watch the piece, sit on the floor and photograph themselves wearing the masks. They then ask someone nearby to take their photo. The person obliges. They then recognize this person’s face and identify her as the artist. The artist confirms their suspicion and takes a seat among them to engage in a dialogue about the piece. It is only because of this chance interaction that the virtual and physical presence merge.
