---
layout: page
title: ''
volume: '2012'
title: ''
place: ''
contributor: ''
collaborators: []
tags: []
pages: 000-001
wrapperclass: intro
---

<div class="intro-page-container">
  <h1>EMERGENCY INDEX</h1>
  <h3>AN ANNUAL DOCUMENT</h3>
  <h3>OF PERFORMANCE PRACTICE</h3>
  <h1>VOL. 2</h1>
  <h5>documenting 2012</h5>
</div>

<div class="intro-page-container">
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  EMERGENCY INDEX, 2012 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  COPYRIGHT UGLY DUCKLING PRESSE <br>
	  ISBN 978-1-937027-12-4
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  EMERGENCY SERIES EDITORS
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  YELENA GLUZMAN &amp; MATVEI YANKELEVICH
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  PUBLISHED BY 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  THE BROS. LUMIÈRE <small>FOR</small> <br>
	  UGLY DUCKLING PRESSE <br>
	  OLD AMERICAN CAN FACTORY <br>
	  232 THIRD STREET, #E-002 <br>
	  BROOKLYN, NY 11215 <br>
	  <a href="http://WWW.UGLYDUCKLINGPRESSE.ORG" target="_blank">&gt;WWW.UGLYDUCKLINGPRESSE.ORG&lt;</a>
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  FUNDED IN PART BY 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  OUR GENEROUS SUPPORTERS, SUBSCRIBERS, PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS, AND THE NEW YORK STATE COUNCIL ON THE ARTS
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  PRINTED IN THE USA BY 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  MCNAUGHTON &amp; GUNN (SALINE, MICHIGAN) <br>
	  ON 100% RECYCLED FSC-CERTIFIED PAPER <br>
	  WITH COVERS FROM FRENCH PAPER CO
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  COVER PRINTING 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  OFFSET AT POLYPRINT DESIGN AND <br>
	  LETTERPRESSED AT UDP ON RECYCLED <br>
	  COVER STOCK FROM FRENCH PAPER CO.
	  </div>
	</div>  
	<div class="row">
	  <div class="col s12 m6 right-align">
	  DESIGN &amp; TYPESETTING 
	  </div>
	  <div class="col s12 m7 offset-m5">
	  DON’T LOOK NOW! <br>
	  WITH ASSISTANCE FROM <br>
		MICHAEL NEWTON AND ANDREW ROSS<br>
	  TYPE: AKZIDENZ GROTESK &amp; ORATOR <br>
	  </div>
	</div>  
</div>

<div class="intro-page-container">
emergency index  <br>
made possible by <br> 
generous donations  <br>
from the following people  <br>

<div class="row">
	<ul class="col s6 l3 collection">
		<li class="collection-item">Alex Abramovich</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Anonymous (8)</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Eames Armstrong</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Luke Arnason</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Eryk Aughenbaugh</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Adelaide Bannerman</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Susan Bernofsky</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Lara Borrell</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Colette Boudreau</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Ana Bozicevic</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Camila Caneque</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Steven Chodoriwsky</li>
	</ul>
	<ul class="col s6 l3 collection">
		<li class="collection-item">Elizabeth Cleary</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Will Daddario</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Viadislav Davidzon</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Yehuda Duenyas</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Dana Edell</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Amy Fusselman</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Tom Gally</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Vallejo Gantner</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Adjua Greaves</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Amy Huggans</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Geof Huth</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Yuko Itatsu</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Doug Jaffe</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Mark Jeffery</li>
	</ul> 
	<ul class="col s6 l3 collection">
		<li class="collection-item">LEIMAY-CAVE: Ximena Garnica &amp; Shige Moriya</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Leonid Lerman</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Melinda Maclean</li>
		<li class="collection-item">John Maloney</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Jeffrey Joe Nelson</li>
		<li class="collection-item">John O’Dea</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Ashley Rawlings</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Amber Reed</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Chloe Rossetti</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Larisa Safonov</li>
		<li class="collection-item">James Sanders</li>
	</ul>
	<ul class="col s6 l3 collection">
		<li class="collection-item">William Skaleski</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Roberto Tejada</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Christine Louise Trudeau</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Keiko Tsuneki</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Tadashi Uchino</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Helene Vosters</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Sarah Walsh</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Edna Welthorpe (Mrs)</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Christine Wenc</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Tara Wright</li>
		<li class="collection-item">Lucien Zayan</li>
		<li class="collection-item">and many others</li>
	</ul>
</div>


With additional support <br>
provided by  <br>
The New York State Council on the Arts  <br>
contributions to index are tax-deductible  <br>
and can be made online at  <br>
<a href="http://www.uglyducklingpresse.org/donate" target="_blank">www.uglyducklingpresse.org/donate</a>
</div>

<div class="intro-page-container">
	<div class="row">
		<ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Bodega Philadelphia</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Grace Exhibition Space</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Issue Project Room</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Live Art Development Agency (UK)</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Movement Research</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">NY Public Library for the Performing Arts</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">NYU Dept. of Performance Studies</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Presentaatiory (Finland)</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">PS122</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Spread Art</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Hideto Maezawa</li>
	  </ul>
		<ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>CONTRIBUTING EDITORS</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Luke Arnason</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Adelaide Bannerman</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Linda Frye Burnham</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Corina Copp</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Steven Durland</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Branislav Jakovljevic</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Pekko Koskinen</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Kristen Kosmas</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Olga Kudrina</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Claudia La Rocco</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Anya Liftig</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Caden Manson</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Sawako Nakayasu</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Esther Neff</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Ben Spatz</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Sara Wint</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>EDITORS</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Sophia Cleary</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Yelena Gluzman</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>ASSOCIATE EDITORS</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Michael Newton</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Andrew Ross</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>MANAGING EDITOR</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Matvei Yankelevich</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>WEB MASTER &amp; REDESIGN</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Andrew Ross</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>ORIGINAL WEB DESIGN</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Playtime Collective</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>ADDITIONAL COPYEDITING</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Christina Aushana</li>
			<li class="collection-item">Alena Jones</li>
	  </ul>
	  <ul class="col s12 m4 l3 collection with-header">
	    <li class="collection-header"><h6>UDP INTERNS</h6></li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Carly Dashiell</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Daniel BB Friedman</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Jamie Fox</li>
	    <li class="collection-item">Ines Pujos</li>
	  </ul>
	</div>

</div>

#### HOW TO READ THIS BOOK

<br>

<span class="dropcap">F</span>OR MORE THAN 30 YEARS, one of the most hotly-disputed issues in performance has been that of documentation. Acknowledged as, at best, a conflicted endeavor, and at worst, a betrayal of the very essence of performance, documentation has been problematized while performances have proliferated. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of performances have come and gone, witnessed only by the people in the room, or on the street. And though we can argue about the advantages of such a condition, it does make a rather unique situation: performance has become a field whose practices are largely invisible to itself.

To respond to this situation, we began with a simple idea: to create an annual periodical allowing the people who made performances in that year to document their work in print. We would not curate these entries on the basis of their genre, their popularity, their location, or their perceived quality. All performances were eligible, as long as they identified themselves as performance and were performed in the year of publication.

In its non-curatorial approach, Emergency INDEX is indebted to the legacy of High Performance magazine (1977–1998) and their “Artist’s Chronicle,” a section of the magazine in which performance artists were openly invited to send descriptions of their recent works—the result is a surprising document of performance in the late 1970s. Famous works appear alongside one-offs, celebrated artists next to unknowns. From this democratic hodge-podge comes a fascinating snapshot of an emergent form.

Emergency INDEX is not, however, concerned solely with performance art. We believe that the broad, confusing field of performance has evolved into a similarly emergent situation, and we hope that our contemporary re-imagining of the “Artist’s Chronicle” can help make visible the breadth of contemporary performance.

Because each annual edition of INDEX will include dance, therapy, poetry, protest, rehabilitation, scholarly research, theater, conceptual art, advertising, and many other fields utilizing performance, we feared simple descriptions would be opaque to those who are not familiar with the histories and problems of a particular field. So we asked authors to articulate not only what they made, but why they made it—to describe the problematics driving their work as well as the performance itself. Instead of focusing on the inevitable misrepresentation of describing the performance as experience, these documents endeavor to describe the choices, tactics, and techniques used to pursue a specified aim.

Each yearly volume contains hundreds of performance descriptions. For all we know, the pages of Emergency INDEX may provide the only print documentation of some performances described herein; certainly, for most, this is the only printed description written by the performance’s creators for no purpose other than documenting the work.

While eschewing traditional curation and designing the book with equal space for every performance, we do not wish to imply that the works documented in this book are equivalent through their self-identification as “performance.” On the contrary, rather than emphasizing the category, the book aims to underscore the variety of the works themselves. Moreover, instead of being discouraged by the disparity between the descriptions (necessarily reduced to language) and the performances they inevitably misrepresent, we have decided to cheerfully use the materiality of language itself to provide yet another channel of information.

That is why the back-of-the-book index is a salient feature of this book. By cross-referencing and indexing the language used by authors in their descriptions, we hope to leave a document not only of the performances themselves, but also of the language used when talking about performance.

You are holding in your hands a simple, flexible, physical, and time-tested technology. It allows for chance encounters, unplanned adjacencies, sudden epiphanies, as well as casual browsing and concerted searching. We hope that INDEX will serve as a useful tool and an inspiration for those to whom performance matters, to whom it is a persistent thorn, who look to performance as a means or as an end.

In short, we are tremendously excited for you to get lost in the labyrinth of Emergency INDEX and to find many threads to guide you through its pages.

<br><br>

#### EDITOR’S NOTE

<br>

<span class="dropcap">E</span>XACTLY 11 YEARS AFTER two planes leveled the Twin Towers, I am flying to New York and coincidentally the woman seated next to me had been exactly where I was during the crash, just north of Canal Street. She and I were probably then standing in the same horrified crowd. Someone’s parked SUV was blasting the news on the car radio. That is the sound I remember, the news, and the shrieking of the crowd around me when the building collapsed.

The aftermath of the day extended via the sound of that radio. News broadcasting replaying endlessly scenes of horror, television doing what it does: using suspense and scale to keep viewers glued, breathless and afraid. The television replicated the tactics of terrorists on a tiny scale, small enough to fit into living rooms all over the world. For me, this was a lesson that performance is not separate from so-called reality, it constructs reality.

I haven’t owned a TV in years. The woman on the plane told me she recently got rid of her TV, “I sleep better now,” she said, “I’m happier.” It isn’t that I advocate shutting off to the word, but I do think you can, to some extent, choose the constructions you inhabit. And more importantly, you can try to understand how experiences are constructed.

I’m wary of replicating the tactics of television in performances I make. What an enormous responsibility: to construct an experience that others will undergo. I’m always on the verge of giving it up.

What happened on September 11, 2001 was a performance, and in this way it is different from more fatal disasters that have occurred since then. This event was fully constructed. It was designed and enacted and experienced. It changed lives.

Together with Matvei and Sophia, I started the annual compendium Emergency INDEX in 2012 to think deeply about the concrete methodology of performance: how actual works are made, what sorts of techniques they use, how they affect the world and construct worlds. I want INDEX to be a space for us to consider what we make, why we make it, and what it does. It is a long-term project, committed to years of documentation and reflection.

<p class="right-align">
—Yelena Gluzman
</p>

