---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: Botanica_for_EmergINDEX.jpg
photo_credit: Josh Higgason
title: BOTANICA
first_performed: first performed January 28, 2012
place: 3LD Art + Technology Center, New York, NY
times_performed: performed 20 times in 2012
contributor: JIM FINDLAY
collaborators:
- Jeff Jackson
- Joel Bassin
- Ilan Bachrach
- Chet Mazur
- Liz Sargent
- Jim Dawson
- Rob Besserrer
- Ryan Holsopple
- Peter Ksander
- Jamie McElhinney
- Normandy Raven Sherwood
- Jeff Sugg
- Maurina Lioce
- Josh Higgason
home: New York, NY / Charlotte, NC / Portland, OR
links:
- thisisbotanica.com
contact: info@thisisbotanca.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- burning
- consciousness
- container
- desire
- destruction
- eroticism
- hope
- image
- object
- plant
- sex
- shit
- space/time
- system
- time
- time space
- time/space
- transformation
- water
pages: 034-035
---

I.

250 living plants.

3 living humans.

1 performance terrarium.

20 gallons of water per day.

1 bag of chicken manure per week.

53 liters of oxygen created every hour.

II. _Plant._

Container of universal consciousness.

Conduit of messages from distant quasars

encoded in photosynthetic cells. Receptive biorhythm mechanism for skirting the

space/time continuum. The watcher and receiver.

III. _Plant._

Sexual and erotic object. Erogenous system of fecund roots and beckoning

leaves. A closed structure of unquenchable desire. The unattainable one. That

which can never be properly fucked.

IV. _Plant._

The great destroyer. The dispenser of judgment. The annihilation of creation.

The transformation of all matter in its own perfected image.

V. _Plant._

I am going to burn down the world. I am going to tear down everything that

cannot stand alone. I am going to shove hope up your ass. I am going to turn ideals to shit. I am going to reduce everything that stands to rubble and then I am going to

burn the rubble and then I am going to scatter the ashes and then maybe

someone will be able to see something as it really is.

VI. _Ilan Bachrach, Chet Mazur, and Liz Sargent._

18 weeks in the terrarium. Probes, cameras, triggers, signal generators.

Watering. Pruning. Listening to the plants. Waiting for a message.

Inhalers of spores and munchers of dirt. The test subjects. Detritus.
