---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: VOYAGER_1.jpg
photo_credit: Pedro Filipe Marques
title: 'VOYAGER #1 — GOLDEN RECORDS SERIES'
first_performed: first performed on March 3, 2012
place: Fábrica da Rua da Alegria, Portugal
times_performed: performed three times in 2012
contributor: AR_SEARCH / ANA GUEDES & RODRIGO MALVAR
collaborators:
- Pedro Resende Leão
home: Porto, Portugal
links: []
contact: rodrigo.malvar@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- dialogue
- dissonance
- fish
- image
- invisibility
- metaphor
- microphone
- narrative
- NASA
- records
- resonance
- tuning fork
- visibility
- water
pages: '078-079'
---

Two performers, thirteen tuning forks, seven fish bowls and 30 mechanical fishes construct a narrative journey of sound created in a layered continuum reflecting the invisible yet tangible constraints of everyday existence. We are bound in a multitude of ways by invisible grids. A metaphor, perhaps, for contemporary Western lifestyles losing track of humanity, individually and collectively.

The performance starts in silent darkness. We begin hearing a 20 Hz tuning fork and the beating hearts of the performers, amplified and captured on site. An image is projected of a goldfish, swimming in a glass of water.

The sound voyage builds as we hear the seven fish bowls resonating with tuning forks in several different frequencies, using the “beating” phenomenon. The performance progresses in a dialogue of tuning forks on different amplified surfaces tampering with the gains, distortions and oscillations between consonance and dissonance.

At this point sound saturation reaches the delirium stage.

Thirty mechanical fishes are wound. Moving all together in an amplified surface, running out of air and time. When the last fish stops moving, the deconstruction of the sound layers initiates. The performers’ beating hearts’ microphones are disconnected, the lights are turned off and the remaining sound is simply unplugged. The room returns to darkness.

The title references the Golden Records aboard the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 spacecraft launched in 1977. They were included by NASA in order to summarize, somehow, through sounds and images, life on Earth, to serve as an interlocutor for an entire species.
