---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: INTERNATIONAL_POETRY_–_INTERNAZIONAL”NAIA_POEZIA.jpg
photo_credit: Nikita Vishnevsky
title: INTERNATIONAL POETRY — INTERNAZIONAL NAIA POEZIA
first_performed: first performed on April 8, 2012
place: Printemps des poetes, University de Konstantin and Institut Français in Konstantin,
  Algeria
times_performed: performed three times in 2012
contributor: MARINA TEMKINA
collaborators:
- Samira Negrouche
- Elisa Biagini
- Michel Gluk
- Sekta Saif El Moullouk
home: New York, NY
links: []
contact: mt741@nyu.edu
footnote: ''
tags:
- Algeria
- Arab Spring
- experience
- immigrant
- language
- language (English)
- language (French)
- language (Italian)
- language (Russian)
- language (Spanish)
- paper
- paper scroll
- poetry
- Russia
- site
- site (site-specific)
- Soviet Union
- war
- war (World War II)
- writing
pages: 116-117
---

Printemps des poetes, where I performed this year, was an international poetry and performance festival in Algeria. The country was celebrating its 50th anniversary of liberation. In my mind, I was prepared to see the post-colonial reality of poverty and multiple conflicts after 130 years of French rule and 20–plus years of Soviet influence. Memories from my Soviet past and recollections from French New Wave films about the Algerian war informed my performance. I’ve never had, and probably will never have again, such a huge audience—200–to–300 students, most of them female.

I thought about my own experience as a Russian-Jewish-American immigrant and about recent and ongoing Arab Spring events while answering their questions. I read poetry and made a performance that consisted of Russian words, which cognate with English, French, Italian, Spanish and other languages. I made the performance site-specific, writing a new list of words when I performed. I have a collection of about 2,000 Russian words that I use. The performance of words was written on a scroll-like paper about two yards long with torn edges. I felt that the audience was incredibly perceptive, tense and sensitive. One unexpected response I got was from a faculty member who said, “You are right, madam, we need to change the world.”

Here is a short excerpt:

	bank 

	tank 

	flag 

	polizia 

	soldat 

	general 

	armia 

	prezident 

	soup 

	coffee 

	banan 

	limonad 

	gitara

	muzykant 

	industrial’naia revoluzia 

	ekologicheskaia katastrofa 

	franzuzskoe shampanskoe 

	pol’skoe kabare 

	atomnaya bomba 

	gynecologicheskaya klinika…
