---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: birch_man_bw.jpg
photo_credit: Anja Ibsch
title: BIRCH MAN
first_performed: first performed on April 12–14, 2012
place: Paradigm Lost at INET Conference 2012, Berlin, Germany
times_performed: performed ten times in 2012
contributor: JÖRN J. BURMESTER
collaborators:
- Anja Ibsch
- Joy Harder
- Uwe Jonas
- Florian Feigl
- Otmar Wagner
- Henrik Vestergaard Friis
- Noah Holtwiesche
- Francesca Romana Ciardi
home: Berlin, Germany
links:
- joernburmester.de
contact: joern.burmester@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- art
- art performance
- bone
- chant
- criticism
- critique
- exoskeleton
- gesture
- image
- installation
- installation performance
- intervention
- object
- process
- public
- public space
- walk
- walk artwalk
- wearable technology
pages: 122-123
---

“Birch Man” began with a wearable exoskeleton I made from birch branches for a three-day performative installation/intervention at the Berlin INET conference in April 2012. The conference was hosted by the Institute for New Economic Thinking, and I made the outfit to add a trace of the unsalelable or un-accountable to the conference. Since then, I have worn it in a series of diverse performances. I am still in the process of discovering its specific properties.

While I am critical of performance art that strives to assume or adapt shamanic or magical powers, I am interested and even fascinated by, certain inexplicable properties of specific images, words and objects that defy rational explanation. The “Birch Man” is such an object. While I put it on, which is often part of the performances, I don‘t know or plan in advance what will happen. I don’t move “Birch Man.” He moves me. The actual pattern of events can be visual, like performing simple gestures very slowly or standing still for very long periods of time; sometimes sounds are emitted, chanting or rhythmic patterns emerge, and it is well-suited for performative walks in public spaces.

I have used “Birch Man” in group and solo performances of very different lengths and under different circumstances. All of these explore the specific situation the performance takes part in: space, time, audience, other performers, etc. No two performances involving “Birch Man” are the same.

It is in an ethnological spirit of observation, curiosity and experimentation that I wear the wooden suit of bones.
