---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: THE_UNKNOWN_SKATER.jpg
photo_credit: Ian Bode
title: THE UNKNOWN SKATER
first_performed: first performed on May 11, 2012
place: Artaq Urban Arts Festival, Angers, France
times_performed: performed four times in 2012
contributor: FRAN ET JIM / JEAN-MICHEL ROLLAND
collaborators: []
home: Paris, France
links:
- franetjim.free.fr
contact: jim.rolland@free.fr
footnote: ''
tags:
- art
- art video
- audio
- audio visual
- composition
- image
- representation
- subconscious
- time
- time real
- video
- video art
pages: 166-167
---

“The Unknown Skater” is an audiovisual performance around a skater’s trip where the same sequence, simultaneously reproduced four times on the screen, is manipulated in real-time in order to create a new reality, different at each representation.

I shot a noisy skater’s trip in Marseille Skate Park in February 2012 and made a 1½-minute movie. I screened four occurrences of this film. These four occurrences are independent and I edited them separately in real-time. In this performance, the main challenge was to loop very small parts of the film in order to create an ever-changing techno rhythm. I decided to create keyboard shortcuts instead of using the mouse in order to be able to play more quickly. It’s a perfect example of my “rhythm’n’split” technique (rhythm referring to sound but also to image) where sound, rhythm and musicality on the one hand, and the constantly evolving plastic composition on the other, are inseparable elements.

My performance lasted between 20 minutes and two hours depending on the time allocated. Inspired by techno music, this mutation of video art into performance logically inserts in the continuity of my artistic statement based upon the perceptive complementarity between sound and image.
