---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: When_I_dance_I_dance,_When_I_sleep_I_sleep.jpg
photo_credit: Nuno Castro
title: WHEN I DANCE, I DANCE. WHEN I SLEEP, I SLEEP
first_performed: first performed on May 25, 2012
place: INTERPLAY International Contemporary Dance Festival, Fonderie Teatrali
times_performed: performed five times in 2012
contributor: SARA MARASSO | IL CANTIERE
collaborators:
- Mattia Mele
- Gabriele Capilli
- Niccolò Bosio
- Marco Ferrero
- Irene Salza
home: Turin, Italy
links:
- ilcantiere.net
contact: ilcantiere@fastwebnet.it
footnote: ''
tags:
- aesthetics
- animal
- between-ness
- body
- breath
- dance
- fight
- gesture
- identity
- language
- language body
- language physical
- sign
- sleeping
- spectators
- 'spectators '
- spectatorship
- story
- system
- tension
- writing
pages: 194-195
---



“I am not trying to convince you, to translate my thoughts. On the contrary, I fight the emphasis and search for a calm and conscious breathing. I apologize for not having words to tell you, I only have my breath, or I am a breath which is sound, which is voice. That voice which does not find its place in the word, which stays wild, light, free and mute.”

The subject of the project “When I dance, I dance. When I sleep, I sleep” is the word: the one we would like to say but we choose not to, leaving space for the body and its language. There is tension between the word and the gesture, two basic elements that interact in development and expression of our identity. The word, in the form of thoughts transformed into flesh that starts to speak in order to express its state of being. The body, which is sharp in taking directions and soft in its ability to follow the stated course.

The project “When I dance, I dance. When I sleep, I sleep” emphasizes dance as an independent system of scenic signs, able to elaborate a sufficiently fluent language that doesn’t have to compete with others in order to tell a story.

During the performance we try to “talk” using the body in action and to express words in an indirect way: through gestures, through writing, through sound. The movements of the dancers give form to separate words or phrases and link them together into a coherent story that reveals to the spectators not only its literal, but also an aesthetic meaning.

That’s how we play with both the need to say and the need to keep silent, moving between the everyday gesture and the abstract sign in order to emphasize, through our dance, the refined animal that we call human being.
