---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: YOUR_COUSIN_PIA’S_SONG_OF_MYSELF_–_EVERYDAY_IS_A_GOOD_DAY.jpg
photo_credit: Slobodanka Stevceska
title: YOUR COUSIN PIA’S SONG OF MYSELF — EVERY DAY IS A GOOD DAY
first_performed: first performed on June 17, 2012
place: Moja Zemlja Garden, Staglinec, Croatia
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: KATRINAMURI
collaborators: []
home: Vienna, Austria
links:
- katrinamuri.net
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- beauty
- bird
- fashion
- history
- home
- installation
- intervention
- language
- language (Bosnian)
- language (English)
- language (German)
- language (Serbo-Croatian)
- modernism
- modernity
- mother
- plant
- prayer
- reenactment
- war
- war (World War II)
pages: 220-221
---

	1.	intimate intervention 1:1

	2.	performance > driving, conversation, reenactment 

	3.	a) installation: wood, metal, cotton, plastic, concrete, essential oil, plants

	 	b) performance, reenactment

…A lot of people, chicken, concrete and shrines in private gardens. A lot of belief.

“It’s kind of a fashion.” Modern. Modernism. Modernity. Maternity.

Houses with holes from the shotguns.

A war not far from home.

Friends, who used to speak Serbo-Croatian, now speak Bosnian.

What is important for us—what is important for our cousins?

The Vienna literary agreement 1850. Was March 28, 1850 a good day?

Was May 13th 1990 a good day?

Every day is a good day! Life is beautiful!

Say it in Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian language. “There is no difference!” my cousin said. “I will say it in Slovenian,” another cousin said. And then German! Japanese! English!…

You wouldn’t want to go before, you wouldn’t want to be driven, you wouldn’t understand, stubborn, not trusting. You were right.

But then: try it with pleading…

Stand there. Smell. Be. Life is beautiful.

This was part two.

And what about PIA. This was part one and three.

Be part of the family. Belong to it. Friends. Better. Family forever.

Intimate. Intimate talks. Get them!

Everything is there. Take it. History. Body. Relationship. Society.

Me. Me. Me. Mother.

Lay down. Lime scents. A fake bird is singing. A fake cat is watching.

A shrine. A chapel. A menopausal prayer.

What if you vanish like your cousin? Vanish and let be. Give away, give up.

Who would reenact? What will rest?

Life is short. Everyday is a good day.…
