---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: POETICS_OF_HERBOLOGY.jpg
photo_credit: Varis Sants
title: POETICS OF HERBOLOGY
first_performed: first performed on June 22, 2012
place: Interdisciplinary Art Center SERDE, Aizpute, Latvia
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: GWENN-AEL LYNN AND TIAGO RIBEIRO PATRICIO
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL / Paris, France / Lisbon, Portugal
links:
- cartasdepraga.wordpress.com
- gwennaellynn.com
contact: gwenn@gwennaellynn.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- body
- book
- communication
- culture
- disciplinarity
- disciplinarity also inter
- disciplinarity multi
- experience
- herbs
- inter
- language
- methodology
- olfaction
- paper
- plant
- poetry
- public
- ritual
- rurality
- silence
- Soviet Union
- tea
pages: 226-227
---

GWENN-AEL LYNN & TIAGO RIBEIRO PATRICIO

A remote rural area in a post-Soviet country; I responded to this context by employing a medium familiar to the local culture: herbal teas from plants endemic to the region. The problem was interactivity: how to actively engage the public beyond mere contemplation?

Our solution was a performance that veered from visual media into the blind realms of olfaction and taste, requiring proximity, and fostering intimate partaking. Borrowing from the knowledge compiled in the exercise book _Foraging In Central Kurzeme_, published by SERDE, and from Signe Pucena (the director of the art center), as well as my own experience, I foraged herbs that could be brewed into teas. To serve these herbal teas in a “meaningful” way to the locality, I invented a ritual specifically for the region of Kurzeme in Latvia. The ritual was organized along a methodology that I have been developing over the past three years, where I derive movements and mood from scents.

I communicate in silence with the audience via the body since I do not speak the local language. However, later on, the Portuguese poet Tiago Ribeiro Patricio, improvising medicinal poetry in his native language (most likely not understood by the local Latvians) occasionally broke the silence to give some rhythm to the performance. Language thus became a sonic device, instead of just a means of communication.

The performance circulated through the entire house of SERDE, a 300-year-old wooden building, via two rooms on the top floor, and then went to the ground floor and ended in the courtyard. I enticed the guests to follow me silently from one space to another by serving the teas, with my gaze, and intuitive body-to-body connection, performing barefoot. I associated a particular infusion to each space, and had carved out of birch (a local resource) each corresponding service, and had hand thrown ceramic cups for this performance. The herbs served were: _Alchemilla Milefolia_, _Betula_ (upstairs), _Lamium Album_ and _Artemisia_ (ground floor), and we ended outside with _Fragraria Vesca_. In terms of structure I alternated between sweeter notes (_Alchemilla milefolia_, and _Lamium Album_) and more bitter and more aggressive greener notes (_Betula, Artemisia_, and _Fragraria Vesca_). Tiago eventually passed around poems translated in Latvian, written on ribbons, and on papers folded in the shape of tea bags, which some of our audience members spontaneously read aloud.
