---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: Mujer_oiseau.jpg
photo_credit: Alain Dacheux
title: MUJER OISEAU LET ME FLY
first_performed: first performed on June 24, 2012
place: Palacio de Albaicín courtyard, Noja, Cantabria, Spain
times_performed: performed twelve times in 2012
contributor: DENISE BLAIS & LORENZA DI CALOGERO
collaborators:
- Daniel Martos
- Joan Martinez
- David Picó
- Yolanda Carrascosa
- Silvia Ferrer
home: Valencia, Spain
links:
- mujeroiseauletmefly.blogspot.com
contact: deniseblais@yahoo.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- alienation
- art
- bird
- cage
- capitalism
- consciousness
- consumption
- consumption consumer
- consumption consumerism
- dance
- dance theater
- freedom
- gallery
- group
- hope
- image
- language
- language (English)
- language (French)
- language (Spanish)
- nature
- pain
- spectators
- 'spectators '
- spectatorship
- theater
- theater dance
pages: 232-233
---




During 2012, this contemporary dance-theater piece, which combined poetry and prose in Spanish, English and French, was staged in several independent theatres in Valencia (Spain). I understand this work of art as a “living organism;” therefore, it is constantly growing and changing. Although being invited by an art gallery to present a performance came as a surprise, I did not hesitate to take the opportunity to transform the piece. On April 6, alongside the Italian contemporary dancer, Lorenza Di Calogero,  I presented a ten minute performance in the art gallery Al Marge Espai d’Art, in Javea (Spain), which led to an invitation from an art symposium director.

On June 24, a 30-minute performance was held at the International Artists Symposium (Sianoja) in Noja (Spain), in the courtyard of the Albaicín Palace. In the first part of the performance, the bird woman who is trapped in a cage tries to get out. We made good use of the apples that a group of performers had left in the grass the previous day to set the limits of the cage. We also got help from painter Victor Alba to turn the original soundtrack on when required. In the second part of the performance, Di Calogero evokes the modern society woman using high heeled shoes as mechanical elements of slavery, while I, acting as a narrator in the first part, portray the evil part of consumer society. Finally, the bird woman finds the strength to get rid of the pain and connect to her inner self and to nature and therefore can start to fly and have a freer life.

We wish to blow the whistle on hyperconsumerism and the way capitalism is alienating both men and women. The goal is to rouse spectators’ consciousness through unexpected movements, disturbing scenes and powerful images of alienation within traditional roles and, at the end of the performance, to give hope through flowing and freeing movements and images of freedom, flight and nature. “Mujer oiseau let me fly,” which translates “Bird woman let me fly,” is a conscious exposure of the dire necessity to build a new type of society.
