---
layout: project
volume: 2012
image: "ONE_ONE_COCO_FULL_BASKET,_CHICKEN_MERRY_HAWK_DEH_NEAR.jpg"
photo_credit: "Inmi Lee"
title: "“ONE ONE COCO FULL BASKET, CHICKEN MERRY HAWK DEH NEAR”"
first_performed: "first performed on September 6, 2012"
place: "Gwanju International Media & Performance Art Festival, Lotte Gallery, Gwanju, South Korea"
times_performed: "performed once in 2012"
contributor: "JODIE LYN-KEE-CHOW"
collaborators: 
  - 
home: "JODIE LYN-KEE-CHOW"
links: 
  - "New York, NY"
contact: "jodielynkeechow.com"
footnote: 
tags: 
  - 
pages: 320-321
needs_review: true
---

{% comment %} 

{% endcomment %}

 “ONE ONE COCO FULL BASKET, CHICKEN MERRY HAWK DEH NEAR”  
 JODIE LYN-KEE-CHOW 
<blockquote>
<em>One one coco full basket, Chicken merry hawk deh near</em>.
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
(English Translation: <em>Every little bit adds up. Danger is often looming when you are having fun.</em>) 
</blockquote>
 The day is beautiful, the sun is shining and everything is wonderful. Suddenly the skies are black; the wind picks up and blows things away. Life is suddenly threatened for everyone and everything. In the piece “One one coco full basket, Chicken merry hawk deh near,” I perform as the nature lover who tries to put the pieces back together after the storm.  
 Inspired by nature walks and smelling flowers by the roadside in my homeland, Jamaica, I try to address global warming and the number one enemy, with the man versus nature dialectic. In the meantime, fragments of the natural world accompany me and end up in an unforeseen destiny.  
 This work is meant to address environmental degradation by capitalist society and also touches upon memory and nostalgia.  
 Prep: <em>Birds are taped onto the wall from strings suspended from ceiling.      		Birds are covered with large white paper.      </em> 
 <em>	Image of little girl is projected onto wall.     </em> 
 <em> 	I appear on stage wearing construction gear</em>.  
 bird sounds to image (one min) construction sounds to image and I appear with a wheelbarrow building 99 blocks (11 min) 
 	<em>turn on fans on both sides (pointing at wall) </em> 
 <em>	I will rip the paper off the wall for the birds to fly</em> 
 wind and rain sounds to fans (on sides) pointing at birds (3 min) 
 	<em>I will change behind the red brick wall into yellow jumpsuit (same as worn 			by the little girl) and turn off the fans (silence)</em> 
 I will kick the red brick wall down after the “storm” 
 I will hand out bricks to audience, indicating that they open.  
 <em>Wear painting jumpsuit or overalls over yellow outfit</em>.  
