---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: INTRA_MUROS_II.jpg
photo_credit: Latitude 53
title: INTRA MUROS II
first_performed: performed September 10–16, 2012
place: Visualeyez Performance Art Festival, Edmonton, Canada
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: MARTINE VIALE
collaborators: []
home: Montreal, Canada
links:
- martineviale.wordpress.com
contact: martine.viale@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- absence
- burning
- festival
- gallery
- home
- installation
- loneliness
- object
- paper
- process
- vulnerability
- water
- writing
pages: 334-335
---

The work “Intra Muros II” was presented over the course of one week starting with a six-hour performance the first day and reduced by one hour each successive day, to close the work with a one-hour performance on the final day. The curatorial theme of the festival Visualeyez—at which the work was presented—was loneliness. In response to it, I began with a single bench in the middle of an empty gallery, sitting and staring at the white wall. As the hours went by, I started accumulating actions and traces, moving between moments of frenetic energy and quiet stillness, gradually transforming the space into an installation.

Alternating between the feeling of being balanced and unbalanced within vulnerable states became relevant in the process of the work. After long hours of struggles with being vulnerable, alone in the room or in front of viewers, I became stimulated with the idea of finding shelter, using my body to do so. From that moment, I started to explore different ways of transforming my body into a house. Persistently drawing, writing and constructing towers of paper, challenging my balance with holding a pile of paper or a glass of boiling water on my head and burning pieces of thread, I obsessively filled the space until I was left with very little room in which to move, and no other choice but to be a house.

In a world of constant change, where the need to adapt to new situations is required, how do we engage with time, presence, ourself and others? What does “feeling at home” mean? Rather than finding answers, I am interested in creating a space to allow both the viewer and the performer to reflect on these questions. With “Intra Muros II,” I also wanted to investigate a format of presentation which would permit the performance to continue even in the absence of the performer just by the traces and objects left behind, thus leaving space for the viewers to bring their own responses to the work.
