---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: OKTOBAR.jpg
photo_credit: Vladimir Jeri
title: 'OKTOBAR XXX: EXPOSITION-SYMPOSIUM-PERFORMANCE'
first_performed: first performed on October 2, 2012
place: Cultural Centre, Panc´ evo, Serbia
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: JELENA VESIC´
collaborators:
- Milica Tomic´
- Marta Popivoda
- Ana Vujanovic´
- Antonia Majacˇ a
- Dubravka Sekulic´
- Andrej Dolinka
- Branislav Dimitrijevic´
- Branimir Stojanovic´
- Marko Miletic´
- Vida Kneževic´
- Vladimir Jeric´
- Vladan Jeremic´
- Rena Readle
- Branka C´urcˇic´
- Svebor Midžic´
- Darinka Pop-Mitic´
- Jelena Petrovic´
home: ''
links: []
contact: jelena.vesic@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- acting
- acting actor
- activism
- antagonism
- art
- art conceptual
- artist
- autonomy
- book
- book notebook
- criticism
- critique
- Denegri, Ješa
- exhibition
- gallery
- industrial
- industrial city
- labor
- labor artistic
- language
- language (French)
- love
- Oktobar
- pain
- process
- reading
- socialism
- truth
- work
- work cultural
pages: 376-377
---

“Oktobar XXX” is a project about love, truth, struggle, pain, criticality, persistence, cognition, sensuality, inner and outer antagonism, clashes on the left and revolutionary thinking.

“Oktobar XXX” was conceptualized as processual reenactment—involving critical reading, interpretation and actualization—of questions initiated and contemplated within the experimental counter-exhibition _Oktobar 75_ that took place in the Student Cultural Center (SKC) in Belgrade in 1975. Within this project, various cultural workers—critics, gallerists, curators and artists—produced and publicly performed a series of critical statements on the concept of _self-managed art_ in relation to the concept of _workers’ self-management_ (the official program of Yugoslav socialist state politics). The protagonists of _Oktobar 75_ explored the dynamics and conflicts between artistic autonomy and artistic engagement within the concrete historical constellation of Yugoslavia in the mid-1970s, by focusing on questions of artistic form, artistic labor, organization and politicization and institutional practices of art. Their action was presented in SKC’s empty gallery space, taking the form of a distributive notebook (mimeographed script) comprised of written statements by different protagonists from the Yugoslav conceptual art scene.

I invited my friends, colleagues and comrades—various actors of independent and left-oriented intellectual, artistic and activist scenes—to speak about art and society from their different, and sometimes opposed, positions. Each individual speaker of “Oktobar XXX” was invited to temporarily assume the position of a certain text/statement from _Oktobar 75_ script and, departing from that particular position of speech, to inscribe his or her own statement. The participants were called to exhibit themselves and their own viewpoints, but at the same time to question the impact and the potential of the spoken word, the power of voice...This event of _speaking exhibition_ was scheduled as a public event in the semi-active theater space in 
Panc´  evo, a mid-size industrial city in the vicinity of Belgrade. Within this _scene of the scene_ or _the scene on the scene_ the participants were encouraged to present their work in the form of _direct speech_, that is, a manifestation of what art historian Ješa Denegri calls _artist in the first person_, and which, in a broader sense, is related to abolition of mediation and ownership in art.

“Oktobar XXX” presented a mode of exhibiting based on the French term of _exposition_, rather than on English term of _exhibition_, thus alluding to the process of exposing or exhibiting precisely _the positions_.
