---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: I_AM_THE_WORST_PERSON_IN_THE_WORLD.jpg
photo_credit: Stephen Faught
title: I AM THE WORST PERSON IN THE WORLD
first_performed: first performed on October 4, 2012
place: The Ho_se, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed twice in 2012
contributor: JAKE DIBELER & MEDALLION SINCLAIR
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- medallionsinclair.tumblr.com
- jakedibeler.com
contact: jakedibeler@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- breath
- cleaning
- culture
- culture also pop
- culture popular
- disappointment
- experience
- pop
- process
- writing
pages: 380-381
---

I have been writing performances since I was in elementary school. I am constantly writing, and my process is very basic. The performances are written sporadically during a period of time. Therefore they mimic, in a surreal diary-like form, the basic state that I am in while writing. “I am the Worst Person in the World” was written during a great period of stress. There was a point where I was looking at myself and became really unhappy with what I saw, so I wanted to explore this idea of self-disappointment.

My good friend and collaborator Medallion Sinclair was going through a similar experience, so I asked her if she wanted to work alongside me. We laid out a simple starting point: explore the darkest parts of yourself, the ones that are terrifying, the parts we hide from everyone. The piece manifested itself as a very cathartic exercise for us. We wanted to make a mess, because we wanted to perform in it, and clean it up. We also were interested in there being some danger: holding our breath with fake blood in our mouths, playing with knives, and placing ourselves in precarious positions atop a tall ladder. In my performance practice I use pop music and cultural debris as a universal entry point. The performances can become nostalgic, and the audience can displace the performers with themselves.
