---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: MAPPING_THE_VOID.jpg
photo_credit: Tristan Bel
title: MAPPING THE VOID
first_performed: first performed on October 16, 2012
place: The Alchemical Theater Laboratory, New York, NY
times_performed: performed six times in 2012
contributor: ANNETTE HERWANDER / VESSEL
collaborators:
- B.A. Maile
- Nico Toscanos
- Lindsay Reuter
- John Hoobyar
- Karesia Batan
home: New York, NY
links:
- vesseldanceworks.org
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- dance
- duet
- invisibility
- map
- space
- theater
- theater white box
- time
- time real
- touch
- video
- video projection
- visibility
- void
- weaving
pages: 404-405
---

A search to find something in nothing. I first became intrigued by this idea with the discovery of Dark Energy, the hypothesis that even in the vacuum of space there is something that accounts for 73% of the total mass of the universe at an ever-expanding rate. I began to investigate what a void could be and how could I map it, show something that wields itself invisible, touching not only on the idea of Dark Energy but the idea of time, relationships and physical space. Weaving together these ideas became challenging. The primary importance was on the use of the space. A white box theater, all seats were removed. Dance and movement is often viewed from only one angle; “Mapping the Void” was performed using all surfaces and encouraged the audience to come close to view the performance from different angles.

The emphasis was to expose the unseen areas of movement. Beginning the piece in the dark was the secondary important aspect. We worked abstractly with a single one-by-one panel light. From the single light, two projectors introduced video. First on one wall and then on a second wall, each one playing at different rates and only one projecting onto the audience and dancers. Warm lights were brought up from the projectors, transitioning from the dark to duets based in real-time human relationships. In order to achieve the connection of a void throughout, it was necessary for the piece to move from the dark to a place of perceived reality.
