---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: Tour.jpg
photo_credit: Claudia Bitran
title: TOUR
first_performed: first performed on October 25, 2012
place: Gelman Gallery, RISD Museum, Providence, RI
times_performed: performed every time that it is played on Youtube or Vimeo
contributor: CLAUDIA BITRAN
collaborators: []
home: Providence, RI
links:
- portfolios.risd.edu/claudiabitran
contact: cbitran@risd.edu
footnote: ''
tags:
- anonymity
- backstage
- beauty
- choreography
- copying
- costume
- desire
- embodiment
- experience
- gallery
- gesture
- humor
- installation
- installation video
- internet
- loneliness
- love
- model
- Spears, Britney
- spectacle
- television
- television (TV)
- touch
- video
- video looped
- video music
- vulnerability
pages: 426-427
---

I lived most of my life in Chile, where I always felt far away from my pop idols. Watching MTV and reality shows became my portal, I learned the choreographies of every music video I loved (N’Sync, Britney, Destiny’s Child…), as well as the lyrics. I analyzed the stars, their expressions, costumes and sets.

In particular, I was obsessed with Britney Spears music videos. In Chile, I was a Britney Spears impersonator for a TV show called _Mi Nombre Es_ (_My Name Is_, 2011). Being a celebrity impersonator on TV was an important way to understand the pressure of performing live in front of a whole country, and it made me think about the vulnerability of people who want to become stars. I wanted to completely embody this experience, living the stress of the backstage of a TV-show set.

But there were other elements that interested me as well. I deeply wanted to _feel_ what it was to be Britney Spears, I wanted to be inside of her videos, I wanted to become her dancers, understand her sets, touch the costumes, and have control over every element of her music videos. What I really wanted was to recreate the whole production of her pop universe. In 2012 I decided to remake 20 of her most popular videos. I started by making miniature maquettes of her sets, copying every element through small dioramas made with craft materials. Then with a glue gun, paint and canvas, I made the costumes. I also rehearsed and learned all the choreographies of her dancers and all of Britney’s moves and gestures. With the help of my green screen and After Effects, I could insert myself into all of these sets. I finally had reproduced all these videos and they were surprisingly very similar to the original ones.

The piece is shown in two different ways: as a video installation in a gallery space with 20 videos projected at the same time, on loop, and also as individual videos through the internet, under the same name of the original videos that I used as models.

These video performance projects are the way that I investigate anonymous loneliness, DIY spectacles, ridiculousness, beauty, the pathetic, humor, formulaic diagrams of desires, homogenous crowds and stars acting inside and/or looking into theatrical sets.
