---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: 12,4.jpg
photo_credit: Diego Defeo
title: 12,4M.
first_performed: first performed on October 27, 2012
place: Espacio A, La Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina
times_performed: performed five times in 2012
contributor: BRAZO DE MUJER / LEÓN VILLAR, VICTORIA CALVENTE & MÓNICA MENACHO
collaborators: []
home: Buenos Aires, Argentina
links:
- brazodemujer.blogspot.com.ar
contact: monica_menacho@yahoo.com.ar leonvillar7@hotmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- alien
- audience
- body
- body undifferentiated
- character
- composition
- crawling
- experience
- history
- history museum
pages: 434-435
---

“12,4M.” is the longitudinal distance that exists between a wall and its opposite side in the studio of La Casa de las Tías, located in calle 49 n°1119, La Plata, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The performance is created in a space where we have decided to work with the concept of sameness that is articulated by two bodies that go through those 12.4 meters crawling in the horizontal plane in opposition to verticality and the erect mode of being. Crawling in the horizontal plane aims at letting the performers experience the original moment of sameness and oneness before any individualization can be made. This results in the composition of a unique body that goes through an almost linear route lit by four torches on the floor that are manipulated by a third performer during the action. At the beginning of every performance, the audience is explicitly invited to move freely and look at the piece from any vantage point. The moving light of the torches cuts across the point of view of the audience, so that the unique body is always accessible in a fragmentary way.

This performance tries to produce an ominous experience for an audience who beholds undifferentiated bodies (preceding individual or identifying characteristics), still strange even if the audience is looking at them close up, as happens in natural history museums when the audience is looking at alien and indistinguishable forms of life in a showcase. But in “12,4M.,” unlike the museum, the alien bodies are moving.

This performance was invited to premiere at Primer Ciclo de Danza Contemporánea in Espacio A and then it was subsequently performed in La Casa de las Tías.
