---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: solo.jpg
photo_credit: Bruno Cançado
title: SOLO
first_performed: first performed on November 23, 2012
place: Galeria da Escola Guignard (Gallery) Belo Horizonte, Brazil
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: MARIANA ROCHA
collaborators: []
home: Belo Horizonte, Brazil
links: []
contact: marianarocha@web.de
footnote: ''
tags:
- absence
- artifice
- body
- criticism
- critique
- death
- exhaustion
- image
- map
- object
- symbolism
- void
pages: 470-471
---

“Solo” is part of my study of the body, its structure, its ruin and its absence. The body plays the role of subject and object, joined together in order to symbolize the mix of critic and flesh. In this piece, I want to speak of something that is not audible, when speech would only come about through contact with matter, silent matter. Things that only come to exist at the moment of their disappearance.

I stand facing a 1’80 x 0’60 meter mirror. It has the shape of a tomb’s lid that is the approximate length of my body. The mirror has no frame and stands on the ground leaning against my forehead. We weigh approximately the same and I hold the mirror on my face for three hours. We both stand still for the whole time. My eyes only see my eyes, regardless of all the images created on the mirror, and all the people surrounding me. Through a point of exhaustion, the mirror and I hold each other. Tomb and vanity. Finitude and the condition of impermanence.

The work deals with the ruin of the body and our condition as Being-Toward-Death. I aim to map an unknown territory, and to deal with my own disappearance. I face the question of what is my body, between its ability to make volume (occupy space) and its ability to become void, to lie and disappear. The body becomes artificial; it is an image or material for the creation of forms. The same body that can be deserted, emptied and torn down by ruin.
