---
layout: project
volume: '2012'
image: This_is_not_us_this_is_just_glass.jpg
photo_credit: Maja Radoševi
title: THIS IS NOT US THIS IS JUST GLASS (TO NISMO MI, TO JE SAMO STAKLO)
first_performed: first performed on November 30, 2012
place: defunct “Beograd-anka” department store, Belgrade, Serbia
times_performed: performed once in 2012
contributor: SINIŠA ILIC´Ć & BOJAN DJORDJEV
collaborators:
- Ivana Sajko
- Dragana Jovovic´
- Katarina Popovic´
- Anka Ac´imovic´
- Pavle Cˇemerikic´
- Andrijana Đord-evic´
- Andrej Kovacˇic´
- Vasilije Krstic´
- Nad-a Marjanovic´
- Ivana Markovic´
- Nina Mrda
- Aleksandra Pavic´
- Pavle Simovic´
- Miloš Timotijevic´
- Luka Zoric´
- Cˇarni Đeric´
- Dragica Đjord-ev
- Nebojša Vukelic´
- Dragan Arsic´
- TkH—Walking Theory
home: Belgrade, Serbia / Amsterdam, Netherlands
links:
- tkh-generator.net
- bojandjordjev.wordpress.com
- sinisailic.blogspot.com
contact: dragana.jovovic@tkh-generator.net
footnote: ''
tags:
- art
- art visual
- capitalism
- collaboration
- criticism
- critique
- economy
- economy crisis
- graphics
- history
- image
- karaoke
- monologue
- reading
- television
- television (TV)
pages: 482-483
---

“This Is Not Us, This Is Just Glass” is based on a text by Ivana Sajko that formalizes the reverberations of economic crisis of capitalist society in a sequence of public and private situations. These scenes reveal the matrix of human behaviors, whether they are in complicity or rebellion.

Operating in the field in between visual arts and performance, we explore through this collaboration the notion of performative _display_ of text rather than _staging_. This implies abandonment of unique, allencompassing overview of the stage, time of consummation and linearity of narration. These elements are sacrificed for the specific _in situ_ dramaturgy of the defunct department store, that offers theatricality and logic of scenes as departments that are visited. Each of the texts/monologues placed in this space—whether they are performed through a graphic layout, spoken by the performer or anonymous voices from the stereo system or combined with either a static or moving image—demands a performance of reading/watching, non-identification, disagreement or critique coming from the audience. The audience is free to move through the space and to start and finish with the performance at any moment; in this way, they organize the performance according to their own will.

The play is displayed as a textual matrix of expected behavior, as in karaoke or TV programs where the text is read from the prompter. These are texts that history, society and capitalism has prepared for us—we just needed to pronounce it. It is not us. It is the text. It is not us, it is just capitalism. It is the thing through which we see everything, as though through a glass.
