---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Maximon.jpg
photo_credit: Tiffany Thompson
title: MAXIMON
first_performed: October 28, 1999
place: alleyway, Kansas City, MO
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: DAVID FORD
collaborators:
- 
home: Kansas City, MO
links:
- http://davidfordart.com
contact: info@davidfordart.com
footnote: 
tags:
- acting actor
- alcohol
- altar
- collaboration
- collective
- comedy humor
- community
- cross-culture
- dancer
- drug
- endurance
- human
- installation
- meaning
- offering
- parameter
- participation
- politics
- responsibility
- ritual
- society
- spirituality
pages: 002-003
---

An actor sits immobilized in an altar setting receiving offerings of vice from the community. This passion play or performance ritual draws hundreds yearly to expose their weaknesses to a stranger in a cross-cultural spiritual setting. Here the act of faith is art and the willingness of participants to present their problems and neutralize them simultaneously. Costumed actors who create a framing device for “the saint” blur the art contact point and activate this performance. The acceptance of offerings and sharing in them (e.g. tobacco, alcohol, drugs, and promiscuity) is an endurance feat and demands the change of actors annually. This immersive performance installation confronts the issue of the backward days in the Mayan calendar and finds a place for these dark activities. Vices or the vocations often associated with them are an aspect of the human condition. Through acknowledging the incongruities that this poses in a socially responsible society and placing them within devotional parameters, the performance alleviates the ostracization of individuals within such a society. Through occasionally discordant or political humor, I seek to implicate the viewer in a collective search for meaning, initiating collaborations with clergymen, exotic dancers, marching bands, Mayan Indians, and a demolition derby. 
