---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: TheHumanFactor.jpg
photo_credit: Ken Yee
title: THE HUMAN FACTOR
first_performed: January 15, 2011
place: Surreal Estate, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: ANYA LIFTIG
collaborators:
- 
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- http://anyaliftig.com
contact: aliftig@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- animal
- animal fish
- authenticity
- body
- Bowie, David
- character
- clothes
- comedy
- dance
- drinking
- embarrassment
- empathy
- glass
- kiss
- lipstick
- love
- music
- nature
- pain
- song
- song singing
- surrealism
- violence
pages: 042-043
---

I begin by staring at the audience. Next, I toss onto a large white table a raw 20lb. salmon. I smell and inspect the fish with my hands. I raise the fish about my head. Music begins. It is David Bowie’s “Let’s Dance.” I proceed to dance with the fish. I put red lipstick on the fish’s mouth. I kiss the fish with my mouth. I rub the fish all over my body. I play the fish like an electric guitar. I sing along with the song. The fish sings along with the song. I take the body of the fish and place it on my head. I become a dancing fish lady. I dance into the audience while the music plays louder and louder. I dance in red high-heeled shoes on the table. The song ends. I toss the fish on the floor. I toss it back on the table. I stare at the audience. I take a long sharp knife out from under the table. I stare at the audience. I start to whack the fish. Pieces of fish go everywhere. Fish is flying all over the stage. I put down the knife and begin to tear the flesh of the fish. I tear the fish flesh with more and more violence. I use both my arms and my back into the fish. I call the fish bad names. I take out a blender from under the table. I tear the fish more and more. I throw fish flesh into the blender. I turn the blender on and let it mash and whip up the fish. I pour the fish drink into a large glass and drink it. I pour the drink into little cups and pass it out to the audience. The performance is over. 

I wanted to attempt to make love with nature in the most authentic and empathetic way that I could. I wanted to make the audience feel the fish to be a character, a potential lover, a funny man. I also wanted to explore the pain and embarrassment involved in trying to connect in any type of relationship, what folly it feels like, how high the stakes are, and how much it sometimes hurts.
