---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: interACTicons-live.jpg
photo_credit: 'Lee Day '
title: INTERACTICONS, LIVE!
first_performed: February  6, 2011
place: Transmediale.11, Berlin, Germany
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: URSULA ENDLICHER
collaborators:
- 
home: New York, NY
links:
- http://interacticons.ursenal.net
contact: info@ursenal.net
footnote: 
tags:
- choreography
- dance
- dancer
- data
- database
- embodiment
- experience
- feedback
- friend
- internet
- language
- layering
- meaning
- media
- metaphor
- network
- participation
- projection
- social network
- sound
- surrealism
- technology
- theater
- video
- visual visualization
- webpage site
- word
pages: 066-067
---

In this performance I wanted to step (physically and metaphorically) into the depths of the Internet, searching for its essential mechanisms, i.e. its current social and technological processes, which were visualized and embodied during the show.  The performance culminated in a multi-layered experience of dance, data, video projections, sound, and the possibility for audience feedback. The piece developed out of my discomfort with certain social networking sites, and the way they seemingly narrow down the way we communicate with each other online. So I started thinking if there wasn’t a more suitable language on the Internet with which we could better express what we think, feel and like, then the language and the medium that seemed to be the most appropriate to “freely” represent how we communicate with each other online seemed to be the video format. I thought if we could use video to talk to each other we could add more meaning to daily social networking actions such as “like” or “friend” or “follow,” which in my mind had lost their inner meaning. So the next step was to set up a database where anyone could submit videos expressing their physical and performative takes on the above mentioned words. The goal was to replace the “empty” terms on social media sites with performative enactments of these terms. This new language was used during the live performance event.  The show was composed of several concurrent projections of multi-media streams and live dance. Projections of 40 social networking sites, reprogrammed into video clips and simple words, choreographed the overall structure of the piece. I worked with two dancers and wanted them to reflect on the video clips and the words to trigger new movement ideas. The audience could experience the piece by just watching, but could also participate and alter the course of the show and send in videos to change the flow of the piece. The performance was meant to be a theatrical and spatial experience of “our” daily actions online, to find oneself inside the inner mechanisms of the Internet. I wanted to induce a surreal and overwhelming feeling, a feeling of being surrounded by a not fully graspable logic, against the ability to somewhat engage with this same mechanism, if even in a very small way, which would ultimately change the overall experience we share. 
