---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Tabula_Emphaticus.jpg
photo_credit: Shasti O’Leary Soudant
title: TABULA EMPHATICUS, OR THE ARTIST FINDS AN EXCUSE TO TALK TO PEOPLE SHE NORMALLY
  WOULD NOT TALK TO ABOUT THINGS WE NORMALLY DO NOT TALK ABOUT
first_performed: February 26, 2011
place: Squeaky Wheel Peepshow (“It’s Complicated”), DNIPRO Ukrainian Center, Buffalo,
  NY
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: GREAT MOMENTS IN WESTERN CIVILIZATION COOPERATIVE
collaborators:
- Caitlin Cass
home: Buffalo, NY
links:
- http://greatmomentsinwesternciv.com
contact: caitlin.cass@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- abstraction
- absurdity
- comedy
- concept
- corporeality
- egg
- house household
- isolation
- meaning
- object
- one-on-one
- participation
- philosophy
- reality
- writers
pages: '082-083'
---

Carrying a tray filled with philosophic concepts (printed on small cards in a tasteful serif font) and common household objects (think oats, rubber bands, egg beaters) I engaged on-lookers in serious one-on-one conversations hoping to make sense of Ideas and Things. Each attendee selected a concept and a thing from the tray to start the conversation. Each conversation culminated in a final written Statement. Participants received carbon copies. 

As far as I’m concerned the world can be split easily into two categories: Ideas and Things. Ideas have a tendency to pull you in a million different directions and subdivide until the world is so abstracted and confused that everything becomes meaningless. Things tether you to corporeal reality and beg you to pay attention to the finite until you get so focused that you forget to look at anything else. Isolated, both ideas and things can be debilitating. Together, Ideas and Things build bridges, paint masterpieces, and eat fried ice cream. This project was all about making absurd generalizations and gallant logical fallacies. We saw a glimpse, the glory of the process; we realized that truth does not necessitate genius, that it can instead spill out of the mundane, the humorous, the mediocre.
