---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Mountain_Songs.jpg
photo_credit: Brady Gunnell
title: MOUNTAIN SONGS
first_performed: May  6, 2011
place: Chase Center, Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art, Prodence, RI
times_performed: performed four times in 2011
contributor: BRADY GUNNELL
collaborators:
- 
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- http://bradygunnell.com
contact: bradygunnell@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- abstraction
- animal
- audio
- bird birdsong
- boundary
- data
- exhibition
- experience
- geography
- landscape
- mountain
- myth
- Native American Navajo
- nature
- product
- projection
- rationality
- sacred
- site
- song
- sound
- soundtrack
- technology
- tradition
- video
- vision
- weather
pages: 158-159
---

“Mountain Songs” is a sound and video performance centered on the four sacred peaks of the Navajo people in the southwestern United States. These peaks figure heavily in the creation myth of the Navajo and provide the traditional boundary of their holy land, or Dinétah. Each peak is inextricably connected to its cardinal alignment and to other elements such as colors and semi-precious stones. Over the course of one week I visited these sacred sites, spending one night and one morning at each. At dawn, each peak was videotaped for sixty minutes. Simultaneously, seismic data was captured using a custom-built accelerometer. The seismic data was subsequently converted into four sinusoidal audio wave-forms, and each was combined with its corresponding video recording. The product of this journey are four videos, sixty minutes each, with accompanying soundtracks. The sounds you hear in these videos are, in essence, mountain songs produced by the very landscape represented in the video. “Mountain Songs” was later shown as a four-channel sound and video performance at the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art in Providence, Rhode Island in the exhibition Digital Plastic. In this performance, each video was projected in accordance with the peak’s associated cardinal direction. “Mountain Songs” addresses my concerns regarding the current state of man’s connection to nature. Indigenous tribes throughout the world could not have survived without a reverence and understanding of the laws of the natural world. Without rationalizing it, they merely respected it and lived in harmony with it, learning it’s cycles. For example, birdsong was not only an abstract avian tone, but carried with it myriad clues regarding the surroundings: seasonality, ensuing weather fluctuation, predatory animals present in the area, etc. The Natives of the Southwestern United States, the region where I am from, are no exception to this connection to nature. In modern times, however, man’s rationalization of natural laws and his pursuit of dominion over the natural world has alienated him from the very land from whence he came. This project seeks to find sinews of connectivity that may exist between man and nature in this digital age. Harnessing technology, “Mountain Songs” seeks to integrate sound and vision, encouraging a new haptic experience of a specific geography. It is also a chronicle of my own connection to the landscape in which I was raised, a topography that lies deep within my heart.
