---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: SPAN_-_SOCIAL_PRACTICES_ART_NETWORK.jpg
photo_credit: Douglas Paulson and Flux Factory
title: "(SPAN) SOCIAL PRACTICES ART NETWORK"
first_performed: May 12, 2011
place: 'broadcast online, , '
times_performed: performed 100 times in 2011
contributor: JULES ROCHIELLE
collaborators:
- 
home: Los Angeles, CA / Brooklyn, NY
links:
- http://socialpracticesartnetwork.org
contact: julesrochielle@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- archive
- art
- collaboration
- collective
- community
- culture
- duration
- email
- history
- institution
- interview
- listening
- mapping
- meeting
- network
- process
- relational
- research
- Skype
- social network
- society social arts practice
- visual
- webpage
pages: 172-173
---

“The Social Practices Art Network” (SPAN) is a site created as a resource for individuals, organizations, community groups, and institutions that are interested in new genre arts forms and practices. “(SPAN)” can be called an Art-Life Performance, or maybe Relational Art; it is an archive, and in order to create the archive, I have had to create new Social Relations, which has made me explore new social proxemics through the creation of a conversational art form. In many ways “(SPAN)” is collaboration, maybe even the exploration of a collective decision-making process and I think it is certainly a durational performance that involves a form of cultural mapping. Yet it also explores the plausible potentials of a community created and connected network reality. This network is a performance of connecting things that may not be connected and visualizing things that can be connected. The enactment of “(SPAN)” has connected me to you and you to others. I have been performing the building of this network for over six months. I have been researching and meeting people via email, interviewing people via Skype, and setting up Listening Stations and conducting Listening Sessions with artists from around the globe. This performance or production of an archive of actions or events has called the following items into question: “Where does cultural production happen?” “Who gets to create history?” “How does cultural production happen?” “How can we work together when we are so far apart?” “Why is important for me to listen to you?” “Is the action of ‘listening’ a performance?” and “Is the archive that I create a record of that action, and is that action important enough to be archived?”
