---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: SoundCave.jpg
photo_credit: Nisa Asokan
title: SOUND CAVE
first_performed: June 17, 2011
place: Church of the Friendly Ghost, Austin, TX
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: BREKEKEKEXKOAXKOAX / JOSH RONSEN
collaborators:
- 
home: Austin, TX
links:
- http://ronsen.org/brekekekexkoaxkoax
contact: josh@ronsen.org
footnote: 
tags:
- audio
- box
- control
- crowd
- environment
- illusion
- music
- noise
- presence
- projection
- sound
- stimulation
- surveillance
- system
- video
- visual
pages: 244-245
---

The “Sound Cave” was a 7’ x 3.5’ x 3.5’ wooden box that people could crawl inside. Inside: complete darkness and a hidden quadraphonic sound system. Presented with different visual and audio stimulation, the viewer entered into an unexpected environment of mystery. The murky video projection outside the box made some people think there was a surveillance system inside the box, thus influencing their actions. This was an unintended effect. Outside, an Usher (Deena Odelle Hyatt) crawled under a sheet, slowly dragging/pushing people into the “Sound Cave;” this coercion effectively solved the problem of getting people to enter the Cave. Outside, an Enforcer (Brent Fariss) moved a contrabass in between any couple who decided to speak during the performance (a very effective and musical crowd-control solution to deal with the problem of people not paying attention to performance). To deal with the problem of the artificial-environment inside the “Sound Cave,” (Austin audiences are sophisticated enough to discern sounds originating from speakers), a thin metal pole was inserted into the Cave. When manually rotated from the outside, it brushed against paper hanging from the Cave’s ceiling, creating an acoustic noise, producing the sonic illusion of a physical presence in the inside environment. The sound inside and outside of the Cave was electro-acoustic music composed for this event.
