---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Western_Meat_Market.jpg
photo_credit: Federico Trimarchi
title: WESTERN MEAT MARKET
first_performed: June 23, 2011
place: MACRO Contemporary Art Museum, Rome, Italia
times_performed: performed twice in 2011
contributor: FRANCESCA FINI
collaborators:
- 
home: Rome, Italy
links:
- http://francescafini.com
contact: mail@francescafini.com
footnote: 
tags:
- body
- book
- chain
- circuit
- collective
- conductor
- culture
- dialogue
- electrode
- experience
- Occupy
- presence
- sexuality
- signal
- sound
- touch
- translation
pages: 248-249
---

“Western Meat Market” is a performance relating our culture with the idea of meat, liberated from its sexual references and conceived as the very essence, the physicality and materiality of others, the space they occupy, their smell in the air, and their interaction with us. Meat is a conductor of entire worlds with whom we seek some form of dialogue, of negotiation. 

I tell this short-circuit, the magic of touch and recognition of the presence of others, and of something elusive but undeniable, through interaction design. I have a low-voltage electrode in my arm. The other pole is attached to the foil that covers the table. When I touch the flesh, this is a conductor and the circuit closes, sending a signal to a digital synthesizer that translates it into sound. Nothing can help us in this journey of discovery, where we have to venture drained and free, even if you conduct your trip on a table supported by piles of books. 

In the version made at the Macro Testaccio I decided to involve the public, creating a human chain. The electrical impulse travels from the piece of meat on the table to my hands, through the bodies of all the people present. The performance becomes a collective experience of the flesh, because all in all that is all we are. 
