---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Ideology_(Ideolog_a).jpg
photo_credit: Felipe Rivas San Martín
title: IDEOLOGY (IDEOLOGÍA)
first_performed: August  5, 2011
place: Cine Capri, Santiago, Chile
times_performed: performed four times in 2011
contributor: FELIPE RIVAS SAN MARTÍN
collaborators:
- 
home: Santiago, Chile
links:
- http://feliperivas.com
contact: frrivas@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- Allende, Salvador
- archive
- art
- authority
- autobiography
- body
- censorship
- Chile
- class
- control
- culture
- Derrida, Jacques
- dissemination
- ejaculation
- emotion
- experiment
- father
- film
- frame
- gender
- government
- heteronormativity
- ideology
- institution
- Marx, Karl
- masturbation
- meaning
- metaphor
- murder
- photography
- politics
- pornography
- power
- reality
- representation
- sexuality
- socialist
- society
- speech
- system
- text
- tradition
- video
- visual
pages: 286-287
---

The video performance “Ideology” is a visual experiment composed of two different performance elements: one of them is a speech that reflects on pornography and politics, declaimed in the tone of a political speech; the other is the video that records the action of a cumshot (ejaculation) on the photograph of the socialist president Salvador Allende killed in the putsch of 1973. It includes archive images from the period of the Allende government. The video caused a controversy and was attempted to be censored in the Video Art Porn Festival where it was presented. 

The condition of pornography (in both photography and video), links it to one of the objectives of this work: to be a critical reflection on the logics and mechanisms of pornography production, as an act to be registered. The proposal brings together text and practice, body and speech, at the crossroads of my biography, more precisely, adolescence: the first masturbation, viewing pornography, begining to have greater understanding of the political problems in my country, participating in political groups and so on. 

What are the possible links between sexuality and politics? What is political in sex? And what about the “sexual” in politics? Is sex ideological? The video takes account of Derrida’s notion of dissemination, where the metaphor of ejaculatory expulsion of the semen serves to illustrate how this process of dissemination, the father-author-origin irretrievably lost control and authority over routes of the ejected. This is a challenge to the supposed stability of sense and meaning; far from remaining faithful to its source, they follow paths that are unpredictable (in this case, the political tradition of the Chilean left). In a post-pornographic way, this work develops the notion of cumshot, the ejaculatory image that has become an essential act of producing pornographic films. The explicit image of the expulsion of semen in the context of the pornographic production would provide a supposed reality show in its increase of the excitatory effects of the porn itself. The ideology of Marx is the system of representations by the ruling class and as such, is the hegemonic power in the social framework and includes all areas of culture. In this regard, heteronormativity is an ideology, a set of representations of sexuality, gender, and emotion, which is hegemonic and which saturates all areas. Traditional pornography is one of its political institutions.
