---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Starched_Spiral.jpg
photo_credit: Laura Bartczak
title: STARCHED SPIRAL
first_performed: August 21, 2011
place: Industry City, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: DREARY SOMEBODY
collaborators:
- Lindsey Drury, Lorene Bouboushian
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- http://drearysomebody.com
contact: lindsey@drearysomebody.com
footnote: 
tags:
- boredom
- failure
- food bread
- meditation
- monks
- mountain
- observation
- presence
- religion Buddhist monk
- street
- time
- touch
- workers
pages: 306-307
---

Buy five or six loaves of bread from a neighborhood bakery. Go to a summer art festival or a street fair, where people are already gathered with the intention to observe. Begin in the place you define as the center. Spiral outward, using bread crumbs to mark where you’ve been. Make contact with everything. By the end, there should be no bit of ground in your path that you can’t remember touching with the soles of your feet. There should be no breadcrumb you can’t remember placing. This performance should take as long as possible, so you’ll have a lot of time to think as you go. If you grasp for context, maybe you’ll start by thinking of Robert Smithson and Buddhist monks circumambulating mountains. If you’re invested in this task as performance, maybe you’ll think about the people you’re passing and whether or not they’re paying attention to you. As time elapses, maybe you’ll start to get hungry or thirsty. Think about that too. This isn’t a meditation, it’s a performance, and you’re a performer. Your job is to fascinate, but this task ignites boredom. Here you are with a bunch of loaves of bread sagging under your arm, destined to repeat yourself into monotony. People won’t pay much attention to you as you go, they’ll just notice toward the end that you’ve filled some square footage with breadcrumbs. They’ll find it interesting for just one moment. They won’t see the pattern of it the way you know the pattern of it. Maybe, in good faith, they’ll take a second to ponder the significance of breadcrumbs. But they won’t know the faces of the workers at the bakery you went to, or how you selected long loaves or round loaves. After they adjust to your presence in the space, they’ll apologize and move out of your way when they see you coming. They’ll step on your crumbs, and kick them by accident so you lose your way. It would take too much retracing to fix it, so you tend not to. Therefore, your task slowly implodes as it grows. It is a task full of compromises, fudges, and failures. As you hold your ambition to captivate alongside your inability to do so, you and your task receive only the baseline of respect and attention given to something recognizable as performance. And that’s the point.
