---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: CHOCHIQQ_BACKYARD_THEATER.jpg
photo_credit: Homer Frizzell
title: CHOCHIQQ BACKYARD THEATER
first_performed: September  5, 2011
place: 369-HQ Backyard, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: JOYCE CHO & MACHIQQ
collaborators:
- Scott Adkins, Erin Courtney, Young Jean Lee, Karinne Keithley Syers, Sibyl Kempson,
  Rob Erickson, Peggy Stafford
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- http://joycecho.org
contact: info@joycecho.org
footnote: 
tags:
- alcohol
- children
- dramatist
- exercise
- experiment
- feminism
- food
- food hotdogs
- home
- intimacy
- music
- playwriting
- sleep
- theater
- tradition
- weather
- writers
pages: 322-323
---

We are playwrighters. How can we celebrate our work? We make an annual event in our backyard and call it “Chochiqq,” and feed hotdogs, theater, and beer to everyone who attends. 

**Performancers** Laurena ALLEN Gerry BAMMAN Norma BUTIKOFER Danny CARROLL Anna ELLIOTT Kip FAGAN Britt FAULKNER Crystal FINN Jack FREDERICK Homer FRIZZELL John GASPER Matt KORAHAIS Lucy KAMINSKY Clarinda MACLOW Lynne MCCOLLOUGH Chantel MEAD Gavin PRICE Melissa RIKER Jenny SEASTONE STERN Derek VAN SCOTEN Sarah WALSH Travis YORK 

Because “Chochiqq” is an outdoor event, you need to think about what type of performance comes across best in the open air. “Chochiqq” is less a theatrical event than a social event with high-quality theater that is happening. It is like a lightening rod for generative energy. “Chochiqq” is an exercise, an experiment in summer weather, precipitation, barbecue, serious dramatic writing and shockingly good musicality. It’s become a Park Slope tradition. It’s an overflowing festival of positive playwriting energies. Intimate intricate hand-made backyard theater potluck where Chos and Machiqqs share shows and food together. It’s family. People are relaxed and at a barbecue in the backyard of a beautiful home, the doors of which are thrown open in hearty welcome, where children live, sleep, and play. And there just so happen to be wonderful plays going on. It is a very special event of relaxed rigor-rigor at play. If you come to “Chochiqq” you will say afterward that it is one of the best events you attended all year. Or maybe the best. 

EVENT SCHEDULE Monday-SEPTEMBER 5, 2011 

DOORS OPEN 12:00 NOON 

12:30 Opening Remarks 

12:35 “The Kioskers” ... Scott Adkins 

12:55 “Admiral Snook Has What It Took” ... Sibyl Kempson 

1:35 BREAK and MUSICAL INTERLUDE 

2:00 “Honey Drop” ... Erin Courtney 

2:20 Feminism with ... Young Jean Lee 

2:45 BREAK and MUSICAL INTERLUDE 

3:15 “Quailing” ... Karinne Syers 

3:35 “time as you know it will never” ... Lumberob 

4:00 “Left Glove” ... Mac Wellman 

***Karinne Syers plays a uke***
