---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Marvelous_Guests.jpg
photo_credit: Nick Tobier
title: MARVELOUS GUESTS
first_performed: September 18, 2011
place: Sit-n-Spin Laundromat, Grand Rapids, MI
times_performed: performed five times in 2011
contributor: EVERYDAYPLACES
collaborators:
- Nick Tobier and Juliane Stiegele
home: Ann Arbor, MI / Augsburg, Germany
links:
- http://everydayplaces.com
contact: nick@everydayplaces.com
footnote: 
tags:
- absurdity
- body
- clothes
- communication
- dance
- dancer
- environment
- guest
- machine
- meaning
- spectator
- workers
- working
pages: 350-351
---

The clothes dryer is turning. Slowly, the contents rotate 360 degrees clockwise. And then again. For ten minutes, or until another coin is inserted. Such is the elegant monotony of a laundromat, as each machine perfects its movements over set intervals. 

Next to the wall of dryers, a ballet dancer performs a stretching sequence. Extending an ankle and rotating the foot. First clockwise, 360 degrees, over and over. Then again. “Marvelous Guests” lends new working conditions and meanings to several trades by inviting professionals to conduct their business in unusual locations-as a guest. Each encounter will produce its own forms of communication on location. We see the relationship between guest and host as dynamic, and not without friction as each adjusts to the other. Much like an oyster, our guest is perhaps the catalyst who needs a host in order to make a pearl. An irritant at first, a persistent question, but ultimately, we hope, a marvelous new relationship evolves. By taking activities out of their familiar environment, we see them for their physical essence. A new place affords us all-the workers, the environment, the spectators-a chance to see something beautiful, poetic, possibly absurd, precious, or powerful. At the same time, the environment offers a new context for the worker to recognize the implications of what occurs rather unremarkably on any other given day, and for an audience to encounter the performances by coincidence rather than expectation to allow for genuine intuitive response.
