---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Hoja_urbana_2011.jpg
photo_credit: José Luis de los Santos Ramón
title: HOJA URBANA 2011
first_performed: September 23, 2011
place: Central del Pueblo, Nicaragua 15, Mexico City, Mexico
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: HOJA URBANA
collaborators:
- 
home: Mexico City, Mexico
links:
- http://hurbana.com.mx
contact: hurbanarevista@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- advertising
- collective
- culture
- dialogue
- Fluxus
- ghetto
- happenings
- intervention
- rap
- sound
pages: 364-365
---

Hoja Urbana is an urban art collective that focuses on the problems of production and distribution of creative work in peripheral places like ghettos. Our events are performative actions in the legacy of contextual happenings and Fluxus. They include circles of dialogue, exchanges of works of art, and sound actions. They are not advertised to the public as performances but rather as artistic events, and flash mobs are sometimes performed in public places.

The 2011 urban art event “Hoja Urbana 2011” was held on the occasion of the presentation of number 04 of our print publication, occurring in the Central del Pueblo located in Nicaragua 15 in the Centro Histórico of Mexico City. The action consisted of three parts: first a dialogue between different urban artists like bozker, charros, nf45, katalizer, znupi, hkr, sock, morbidus, and many others. After a trade of artistic works, the event finished with on-site graphic intervention and the sound action accompaniment of Charrito Soundsystem and rap by Riek. The purpose of this artistic action was to reflect on the problems of production and distribution of art and its social function. The action sought to posit art as the force that creates cultural oxygen and social connective tissue.
