---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: MOVING_MATTER.jpg
photo_credit: Daniel S. DeLuca
title: MOVING MATTER
first_performed: October 24, 2011
place: 301 Gallery, Montserrat College of Art, Beverly, MA
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: SANDRINE SCHAEFER
collaborators:
- 
home: Boston, MA
links:
- http://sandrineschaefer.com/home.html
contact: sandrine@sandrineschaefer.com
footnote: 
tags:
- aesthetic
- art
- background
- body
- exhibition
- experience
- fear
- gallery
- gesture
- icon
- installation
- object
- perception
- sculpture
- sleep
- system
- travel
- visibility
- visual
- witness
pages: 424-425
---

I work with experiential art practices in an effort to re-imagine the shared experience of being. Coming from a visual arts background, I am frequently presented with the challenge of how to negotiate my relationship to the art object and how my performative practice can fit into contexts designated for visual art. In October 2011, I created a piece for “Holy Ghost//Personal Piety and Alternative Belief Systems,” an exhibition at Montserrat College of Art’s 301 Gallery. Inspired by the contemporary search for understanding the symbiotic relationship between creativity, belief, and action, I attempted to astral project for six consecutive days while installed in the gallery. During gallery hours, I invited an out-of-body experience while lying in a wheelbarrow filled with sand collected from a local beach (a reference to the historic icon of the Sandman who pushes a wheelbarrow of sleep-inducing sand; an acknowledgment of the connection between astral projection and sleep states). Small holes were drilled into the bottom of the wheelbarrow in the shape of the largest constellation that was visible from Beverly, MA (the location of the gallery) and Reykjavik (the location of a dear friend). My micro-movements caused the sand to trickle through the holes, spilling sand onto the floor in the shape of the constellation. The sand, the wheelbarrow, and everything in it, was the same color of my flesh. This aesthetic choice created a visual fusion, making it easier for the audience to see my body as a part of the sculpture. My body was presented within the gallery alongside several other art objects. Although my mind was active during “Moving Matter,” my body remained still. Witnessing a still human body engaging in an action in an unexpected context induced varied responses. Seeing a female body in a vulnerable gesture conjured fear for some, while others were able to look at my body similarly to how they would experience a painting or sculpture. Some spent time watching the negative space around me, searching for some kind of visual clue as to whether or not my astral body was traveling beyond the physical realm. If we can’t see it, is it real? Is it art? Regardless of the response, this piece succeeded in that it liberated social perceptions about how we witness and what we witness. 
