---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: dreamtime_aksi_revolusi.jpg
photo_credit: videostill by Nala Nandana
title: DREAMTIME AKSI REVOLUSI (REVOLUTION ACTION)
first_performed: October 26, 2011
place: Alun-Alun Kidul, Yogyakarta, Indonesia
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: S&M
collaborators:
- Nicola Morton and Simbi Dare
home: Indonesia / Australia
links:
- http://nicolaisgreat.com/2011/11/dreamtime-with-simbi-dare-and-nicola.html
contact: nicolaisgreat@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- animal
- animal antelope
- burning
- ceremony
- dream
- empathy
- environment
- fear
- gender
- illusion
- language Bahasa Indonesian
- medicine
- microphone
- music
- Native American
- revolution
- riot
- society
- tourist
- tradition
- transformation
- translation
- video
- walking
pages: 430-431
---

Problem: revolutionary action is needed to change the fabric dimension of society to a place where we all hold empathy and have what we need-a dreamtime dimension. S&M’s penultimate performance in Indonesia. Nicola and Simbi’s medicine cards that represent our link to above and other dimensions are the Rabbit (fear) and the Dragonfly (illusion). This performance was to transform the fears and illusions we had presented in our previous performances and use the energy to expose the world to dreamtime. We used a famous public gateway in Yogyakarta, the banyan tree gates at the Sultan’s Palace. According to tradition, if you walk from the top of the park through the middle of the gate, you will have unlimited success. Every night locals and tourists try to get through the cosmic gateway, often other musicians and people trick and distract you from getting through the gate. Dressed as the rabbit and dragonfly, we tried to make our way through the two trees. On our third attempt, we finally got to the middle and unpacked the gender (Javanese xylophone) and microphone and sang the lyrics of Atari Teenage Riot’s “Revolution Action” which we had modified and translated to Bahasa Indonesian (a language not native to the area, but a simple, universalizing language of the area). At the end we wanted to destroy the rabbit and dragonfly as they drew fears toward us and got trapped in illusion. So the rabbit was eaten by a Javanese wooden tiger puppet and the dragonfly costume was going to be burned, but at the last minute, Simbi decided to give the costume to a little girl who had watched the whole performance in the audience. Having shed our fears and illusions, we got through the gate. That night Simbi met a new friend who has tattooed on his chest, “Be Careful What You Wish For.” We drew new cards for our entrance to dreamtime, Nicola is the antelope or knowledgeable action and I am the butterfly, or projects and transformation. For Christmas Simbi performed a potlatch, or Native American ceremony in which you give away and burn all your belongings. An enormous sparkly dragonfly dive-bombed into the fire.
