---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: Spuren-Graben.jpg
photo_credit: Tim Hunt
title: SPUREN-GRABEN
first_performed: November 12, 2011
place: Space 109 (O U I Performance), York, UK
times_performed: performed once in 2011
contributor: CHRISTOPHER MOLLON
collaborators:
- 
home: Scarborough, England
links:
- http://christophermollon.com
contact: christopher.mollon@gmail.com
footnote: 
tags:
- absence
- appropriation
- architecture
- assemblage
- body
- boots
- charcoal
- drawing
- geology
- installation
- intervention
- mapping
- memory
- mirror
- object
- presence
- representation
- score
- sculpture
- site
- touch
- visibility
- walking
pages: 456-457
---

“Absence is a either the trace of a previous presence, it contains memory; or the trace of a possible presence, it contains immanence.” -Peter Eisenman (in 

Moving Arrows, Eros, Other Errors­-Architecture of Absence

) 

“Spuren-Graben” is a sculpture in action. It is a culmination of a series of walks, sculptural interventions, and subtle land alterations. “Spuren-Graben” is mapping temporal space. It is a representation of the tides and an ode to the tides. It is a work that deals with what is left by the tides. Through careful consideration and appropriation of action and assemblage, I presented and re-presented a site in a non-site. Through this, I manipulated the fixed space I inhabited. 

A line to define space, a line as invisibility, a line as temporality, a line as representation, a line as measurement, a line as score, a line as geology, a line as art, a line as structure, a line as architecture, a line as fault, a line as hour, a line as visibility, a line as mirror, a line to define space. 

Score: 

Hiatus, (Space). Take boots off and spray paint my left boot green and my right boot red. Place left boot on opposite side of space. Place mirrors parallel to one another across a diagonal of the space and then place shale on each side of the mirror closest to the audience. Place sea coal in the center of the defined space but place on a diagonally conflicting bearing in relation to the right angles of the two back walls. Tape red insulation tape in one continuous line above head height on the two back walls and then tape green insulation tape in one continuous line below waist height on the same walls. Tape red insulation tape in one continuous line on the floor at the top of the sea coal line and then tape green insulation tape in one continuous line on the floor at the bottom of the sea coal line. Walk space six times with left hand touching the wall from the left. Draw six lines with charcoal in between green and red tape on two back walls. Lie on mirror and roll away to the right six times. Walk space six times with right hand touching the wall from the right. Empty the shale onto the mirror and make a diagonal line with the shale until part of mirror is visible. An installation of objects.  
