---
layout: project
volume: 2011
image: je_suis_un_oiseau_jaune_par_choix_divin.jpg
photo_credit: Michel Portier
title: JE SUIS UN OISEAU JAUNE PAR CHOIX DIVIN (I AM A YELLOW BIRD BY DIVINE CHOICE)
first_performed: November 29, 2011
place: Espace Culturel Bertin Poirée, Paris, France
times_performed: performed twice in 2011
contributor: IPPEI HOSAKA
collaborators:
- 
home: Paris, France
links:
- http://ippeihosaka.blogspot.com
contact: contact.ih09@gmail.com
footnote: Description translated from French by Luke Arnason
tags:
- absurdity
- animal
- bird
- body
- character
- childhood
- clothes
- communication
- dance
- femininity
- history
- layering
- masculinity
- men
- religion
- role
- sculpture
- sexes
- spirit
- story
- translation
- universe
- woman
pages: 480-481
---

When I was little, I often said to myself: women wear skirts and pants, so why do men wear only pants? It’s not fair... What are femininity and masculinity and what difference is there between men and women? I enjoy wearing women’s clothing, but not to play the role of a woman. Rather, it is to show a universe (character) that is ambiguous and includes everything. The universe is a whole, and that whole is one. As spirits, we all come from the same place, but we forget this. And we divide everything up: the sexes, countries, religions, historical periods, etc. It is like thousands of raindrops falling from the sky and, as soon as they hit the ground, trying to identify themselves by finding differences between themselves and all the others. What is man? How do we communicate? 

Dance is a very strong tool of communication. I communicate with others, not only in the three dimensions, but also in the fourth... 

During a trip to India, I saw a little girl wearing a sequinned, neon yellow dress. 

This dress fascinated me. I was almost jealous. What might it look like if I were to wear such a dress? Absurd things interest me, sincerely and sometimes very seriously. Why yellow? Perhaps because it is a color that clearly attracts attention. It is a color that, for me, represents childhood. It’s a bit of a kitschy color, don’t you think? An image of madness? Of light and of its energy? And also, I too am yellow.

So I created some yellow dresses. Having studied fashion design before dance, it is important to me to think as much about costumes as about the notion of movement, the one influencing the other and vice versa. I wanted to make the costume grow over the course of the performance. That is to say, at the beginning there is a relatively simple yellow dress. Then, as the performance goes on, I add layers. Little by little, the dress becomes bigger to the point of becoming invasive. At each step of the performance, I taste a different state of the body: the masculine body, the feminine body, the animal body, the sculpted body, the troubling body, the harmonious body.

Is it like our lives? A story beginning with a yellow dress.
