---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: The_White_Book_Performance_Lectures_No_2.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Tim Panduro'
title: THE WHITE BOOK PERFORMANCE LECTURE SERIES
first_performed: first performed on January 26, 2013
place: ROTHSCHILD 69, Tel Aviv, Israel
times_performed: performed five times in 2013
contributor: HELENE LUNDBYE PETERSEN / WHITEPAGEPROJECT
collaborators:
- Tahel Frosh
- Rajaa Natour
- Karen Humle
- Dekel Eizenberg
- Tim Panduro
- Alesya Gulevich
home: New York, New York, US & Copenhagen, Denmark
links:
- whitepageproject.com
contact: contact@whitepageproject.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- audience
- book
- conventions
- critique
- critique criticism
- institution
- intimacy
- lecture
- manifesto
- performance lecture
- philosophy
- thinking
- translation
- video
pages: 022-023
---

In 2011 I wrote a curatorial manifesto on the art space. “The White Book” is written in a poetic and critical form to challenge political, institutional, commercial and cultural structures, urging us to consider them as conventions rather than fixed realities. The book provides a philosophy of space and underlines the inevitable rhetoric of its spatial qualities, such as frames, lights and colors. Since “The White Book” is creating a conceptual space for rethinking, I initiated “The White Book Performance Lecture Series” with the purpose to unfold the book in physical space. “The White Book Performance Lectures No.1” took place in four different art and literature institutions in Israel. “The White Book Performance Lecture Series” translates the book into space, so that a page becomes the room where the performance takes place and the person becomes the words, making the moment itself a living body of work where our existence in space takes center stage. As the content of the book approaches the great complexities of the current condition of life that oftentimes make us feel like observing bystanders to our own lives, these performances insist on a specific space sensitivity—reminding us of the importance of the moment. They wish to offer a space of intimacy and reflection, engaging with the audience in a collective experience, a unique context, a specific moment which will never be the same.

There are ten performances planned which will take place over several years in a selection of countries representing the different continents. Each Performance Lecture is documented and will in the end be gathered into one Site-Specific Video Book which will underline the unique moments defined by the context provided by each space and audience.
