---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: walk_for_a_week.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Kris van ‘t Hof'
title: WALK FOR A WEEK
first_performed: first performed on March 9, 2013
place: a street from Franklin Rooseveltplaats to Carnotstraat, Antwerp, Belgium
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: HARRI PIISPANEN
collaborators: []
home: Helsinki, Finland
links:
- harripiispanen.eu
contact: harri.piispanen@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- clothes
- clothes tank top
- map
- objects
- story
- writing
pages: '084-085'
---

“Walk for a Week” is an approach to mapping. Performed in the city of Antwerp, it focused on a diverse and busy hub that seemed to have a different disposition at any given hour: a street stretching from the Franklin Rooseveltplaats to the Carnotstraat. “Walk for a Week” was set out to collect seemingly trivial events—inconspicuous details—inside this area. The events were documented and made into objects within a period of one week.

During a six-day period, I walked the street at different hours of the day, each time writing down observations of casual things that mostly seemed to go unnoticed. After six days, I printed all of the observations on _marcellekes_, or tank tops, to be used in one final walk. Each of the tops contained one event, a story of few sentences that also stated the exact location and time where it had originally occurred.

At the end of the week, I made one last walk retracing all the places where I had made the sightings. During it, I wore all the tank tops at the same time, one on top of the other. After arriving at each location, I stopped to peel off the shirt with the story connected to that particular spot. The shirt was then neatly folded and handed to a passerby as a gift, returning the story back to the street where it had originated. This was repeated until I ran out of shirts.
