---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: Four_Tasks.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Hsinyen Wei'
title: FOUR TASKS
first_performed: first performed on March 11, 2013
place: School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IL
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: CHEN CHEN YU
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL
links: []
contact: ccychenyu@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- autobiography
- deconstruction
- family
- family grandfather
- gesture
- history
- history personal history
- landscape
- narrative
- process
- reenactment
- story
- story personal stories
- tasks
pages: '088-089'
---

In this work, I collected materials from national histories, family and personal stories through my grandfather and my parents telling the stories. Most of the stories I have been hearing for decades. My personal relationship with these histories have been built from the relationships between stories, story tellings, and reception of these stories. Producing the gestures and movements out of the stories and story tellings is a way to de-contextualize the materials and recreate a personal landscape built by these four tasks. In the re-enactment of these materials, the stories and the quality of the story telling are embedded into new forms which depart from the original sources. But the forms of these four tasks are trying to reconnect the formality with the relationship between stories and tellings. For me this is a circuitous process of making between departure and return, decoding the narratives and encoding visual forms. In the process of making, I am curious how this circular making can help to integrate the deconstructions of the narratives and the performative forms of new tasks. And also I am interested in how the emotional elements shift between old memories and new forms, the tasks of my family and these new gestures.
