---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: ''
photo_credit: ''
title: DISONAR
first_performed: first performed on March 23, 2013
place: Evanston Art Center, Evanston, IL
times_performed: performed twice in 2013
contributor: SCOTT CARTER
collaborators:
- Jesse Butcher
- Alex Gartelmann
home: Chicago, IL
links:
- scottacarter.com
contact: scart9684@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- action
- architecture
- construction
- demolition
- destruction
- domesticity
- gesture
- installation
- landscape
- music
- music drum
- music live music
- music rock
- objects
- objects drywall
- objects wood
- sound
- temporality
- time
pages: 110-111
---

“Disonar” was an installation and performance that took place at the Evanston Art Center in Evanston, Illinois. For this project, a fully functional rock band was set up, including guitars, amplifiers and a drum set created from construction materials such as drywall and concrete, recycled electronics, guitar parts and drum hardware. This installation culminated in a performance in which three musicians played a live show. Through the process of playing the instruments, the entire installation was destroyed while creating a cacophony of sound.

By constructing functional replicas of instruments out of common building materials such as drywall, plywood and concrete, I am attempting to conflate two disparate skill sets and forms of expression through performance. While a drum set made from drywall actually functions and produces sound, its intended use is partially stripped due to the vast difference in resonance and tone and its inability to withstand force. However, during the process of playing this instrument, rhythms are found that, in my mind, reflect the droning of multiple hammers sounding across a newly constructed suburban neighborhood. In the end, these instruments will fail and begin to deteriorate, referencing a natural cycle of decay in domestic architecture and visually mirroring a demolition site.

Ultimately, the actions, objects and installations that I produce epitomize my interests in our current visual and cultural landscape. Due to the juxtaposition of function and temporality in my work, each piece becomes an absurd gesture focused towards a personal artistic utopia. My intent is to strike an equilibrium where my two creative interests find physical and conceptual resonance.
