---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: Unfolding_Memories.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Jill McDermid'
title: UNFOLDING MEMORIES
first_performed: first performed on April 13, 2013
place: Grace Exhibition Space, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: SINDY BUTZ
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- sindybutz.info
contact: sinonskin@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- Butoh
- church
- conversation
- dream
- duration
- energy
- intention
- intimacy
- landscape
- objects
- objects paper
- persona
- process
pages: 144-145
---

“Unfolding Memories” is a four-hour durational performance piece. The focus was on the process of creating an intimate installation space with the use of Butoh-inspired body movement. In this work, the created space shows a church and mountains all seeming to be covered in snow or fog, a dreamy and poetic atmosphere. The only pre-planned element of the landscape was the church. Everything else happened through intuition and coincidence on a meditative mindset.

My personal challenge and rule of creating this landscape, mainly made out of paper, was to contain a constant slow speed and fluidity of my movements while building it. I worked with only a couple preselected available tools in the installation setting in order to not break the energy I had created for the space. I had set a certain radius which I was not allowed to leave in order to not get distracted by other energies. The performance is also a study and exploration of sculpting and building with my hands and body, as well as discovering stillness, settled sounds and smell, unplanned thoughts, memories and daydreams throughout the work/performance time. My intention was to put myself into this dreamlike and highly meditative head zone and share every moment of it with the audience. Being the most pure, honest and fragile persona possible in this particular space eventually led the viewer into a deeper conversation with their own memories and imaginations.
