---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: ALLISON_WWONDERLAND'S_NEW_OPPORTUNITIES_CENTER_(FOR_EVERYONE).jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Allison Walters'
title: ALLISON WWONDERLAND’S NEW OPPORTUNITIES CENTER (FOR EVERYONE)
first_performed: first performed on June 8, 2013
place: Fitness Center for Arts and Tactics, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: ALLISON WWONDERLAND (ALLISON M. WALTERS)
collaborators:
- Miles Pflanz
- Laura Blüer
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- allisonmwalters.com
contact: allison@allisonmwalters.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- cell phone
- computer
- family
- family mother
- job
- photograph
- telephone
- television
pages: 240-241
---

“Allison Wwonderland’s New Opportunities Center (For Everyone)” is set within a completely white storefront decorated as a mostly empty waiting room. Smooth Jazz plays on Pandora radio with commercial interruptions. There is a non-functional television placed in front of a white couch, and there is a check-in desk where I sit. I greet participants, give them a long and incomprehensible “registration form” and then cease to interact with participants aside from photographing them. I call my mother, clean the floors, eat junk food, surf Facebook and take photographs of myself on my cell phone and computer. If the participants hand me the completed form (with the only invitation for marking a check box labeled “YES”), I drop them into a large pile on the floor, which I sweep intermittently.

This performance addresses the vagueness and sterility of the job market, as well as the vagueness and sterility of organizations that attempt to provide relief from the dry job market. It suggests that all organizations may have a hidden agenda. The participants of this performance are thrust into an event that has the semblance of organization and professionalism, but is completely lacking these qualities in reality. The participants are left to wonder what actually happens at this level within organizations that are known and recognized as successful. They are confronted with total absurdity under the guise of professionalism.
