---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: Decanto.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Gabriel Bolzan'
title: DECANTO, UNTIL GETS NECESSARY TO FORGET
first_performed: first performed on July 7, 2013
place: Espírito Mundo Festival, Vila Nova de Gaia, Portugal
times_performed: performed four times in 2013
contributor: RUBIANE MAIA
collaborators: []
home: Vitória, Espírito Santo, Brazil
links:
- rubianemaia.com
contact: rubianemaia@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- alcohol
- alcohol wine
- body
- language
- memory
- neuroscience
- process
- remembering
- research
- temporality
- time
- voice
pages: 282-283
---

I am interested in the multiple possible connections between body and time, mainly in the ways in which bodies live, create, experiment, explore, assume, process and project their experience of temporality, may these forces be known or unknown. In performance, I deal with lived time, dilated, inexhaustible, immeasurable through an unusual body state that is up to be a passage, a duration, a trace, a crack and a ruin. I mix confabulation and life to develop a language closer to aesthetic and sensitive subtleties.

Currently, I develop research related to alchemy, memory (memory types: mnemonic; memory loss—oblivion; super memory—remembrance and mental training and the multiple relations with the senses), neuroscience, mental health and slowness. I look for the fragility, the delicacy, the confrontation, the self-control and the impermanence.

In “Decanto,” I work with a simulation for erasing memory. How?

_First Moment: voice. recorder. verb_

_Duration: about four hours_

I hold in my hands a recorder and continuously read aloud the conjugations of the verb forget, in all its moods and tenses.

_Second Moment: chair. voice record. dropper. cup. wine. semantic memory_

_Duration: about four hours_

I turn on the audio recorded on the previous day. I lie down in a chair lying on the ground and with the help of a dropper, I gather, as slowly as possible, the wine in a glass located above my head. Gradually, while focusing on my voice repeating forgetfulness, I drip wine in my mouth without swallowing and let it overflow.
