---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: EARTH_MAN_EARTH.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Alex Young'
title: EARTH MAN EARTH
first_performed: first performed on July 21, 2013
place: Glasshouse Project, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: ALEX YOUNG
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY & San Diego, CA
links:
- worldshaving.info
contact: info@worldshaving.info
footnote: ''
tags:
- action
- agency
- Applewhite, Marshall
- architecture
- artist
- attention
- authorship
- character
- collectivity
- Cosmism
- diagram
- environment
- Fyodorov, Nikolai Fyodorovich
- Heaven’s Gate
- information
- monologue
- motivational speech
- philosophy
- power
- rationality
- reason
- research
- self-help
- speech
- technology
- transhumanism
pages: 326-327
---

“EARTH MAN EARTH” (EME) looks to respond to the unique conditions of the early twenty-first century. It is an extension of a larger constellation of research, diagrams, objects, ephemera, proposals, video and actions first exhibited in “EARTH MAN EARTH” at Flux Factory; this performed iteration exists in the realm of the monologue, comprised simultaneously of incantation, rumination, motivational speech, virulent diatribe and sales pitch. It combines affinities toward Federovian Cosmist philosophy, transhumanism, post-Fullerian architecture and Black Metal tactics of inversion; “EME” pitches the vast potential and bio-preservative power of the naturally occurring bio-preservative moss bogs and posits a sustainable living model that fuses environmental, social and mental ecologies in the promotion of an all-organic suspended animation.

This presentation—flanked on both ends by select video excerpts from Marshall Applewhite’s Heaven’s Gate initiation tapes and their admonitions of a “planet Earth about to be recycled”—calls into question the limits of present social and technological formations, as well as those of argumentative reasoning. Applewhite, while providing the right tenor for the ensuing screed, is also positioned as a prescient example of today’s artist through his strongly crafted personae, his self-dispersion and his persistent appeal for ever greater followers and media attention. “EME” postulates that the desire for individual attention and authorship is part of a perpetual short-circuit in the dispersal of information and, as such, attempts toward collectivity are persistently squashed in the perverse preservation of distinct authorship. The audience is herein encouraged to join in putting a pause on living until a time where the individual is no longer viewed as an agent or end goal in collective decision making.

“EME” is where you and I vie for each other’s attention, releasing our respective identity-cum-information into an encrusted network of global consciousness rigged in a garbage-laden stack extending from the cosmos to the screen; “EME” promotes the simultaneous celebration and secession from this condition by actively endorsing a black geophilosophical action plan.
