---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: case_pyhajoki.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Liisa Louhela'
title: CASE PYHÄJOKI—ARTISTIC REFLECTIONS ON NUCLEAR INFLUENCE
first_performed: first performed on August 8, 2013
place: Public spaces in Pyhäjoki and Raahe, Finland
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: CASE PYHÄJOKI / MARI KESKI-KORSU
collaborators:
- Ryoko Akama
- Erich Berger
- Brett Bloom
- Bonnie Fortune
- Carmen Fetz
- Antye Greie-Ripatti
- Martin Howse
- Mari Keski-Korsu
- Maarit Laihonen
- Liisa Louhela
- Pik Ki Leung
- Mikko Lipiäinen
- Shin Mizukoshi
- Helene von Oldenburg
- Opposite_Solutions
- Andrew Gryf Paterson
- Leena Pukki
- Heidi Räsänen
home: Fukushima, Japan & Huddersfield, UK / Wien, Austria & Helsinki, Finland / Chicago,
  US & Copenhagen, Denmark / Vienna, Austria / Hailuoto, Finland / Helsinki, Finland
  / Sulkava, Finland / Hong Kong / Hamburg, Germany / Tokyo, Japan / Bucharest, Romania
links:
- casepyhajoki.info
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- activism
- activist
- collaboration
- DIY
- experiment
- games
- hiking
- intervention
- journey
- karaoke
- lecture
- nuclear energy
- nuclear power
- nuclear reactor
- performance lecture
- public space
- research
- sports
- trip
- voyage
- walking
pages: 362-363
---

“Case Pyhäjoki—Artistic reflections on nuclear influence’” was a trans-disciplinary expedition and series of interventions and performances in Pyhäjoki, Northern Finland. The sixth nuclear power plant (NPP) of the country is planned to be built soon in Pyhäjoki Hanhikivi cape.

Participants of Case Pyhäjoki were artists, researchers and activists. The pre-designed programme consisted of lectures, meeting local people and expeditions of different kinds to get to know the area and to understand nuclear power as a phenomenon, and what the power plant means to people, from the local to the national and global. What are artists’ roles in relation to the changes in the area and in the wider world? How can we develop methods of creative work in a complex and contested place of social tragedy and distress? How can we communicate this to wider networks?

The second week, the participants created different types of engagements, prototype events and experiments. These included a large “thank you” sign for those who refused to sell their land to the nuclear power company, as well as the creation of a collaborative performance “power sports day,” including a local fairytale, a mural painting with local youth, a special karaoke playlist, a DIY geiger counter building workshop and more.

List of some of the interventions and performances:

– Power Sport Day, a collaborative performance with local participants (Carmen Fetz, Mikko Lipiäinen, Andrew Paterson and locals)

– “One man stand,” a performance in an Old Town Raahe public space (Claudiu Cobilanchi)

– “Sonic Boat Journey,” a performative travel from Hailuoto to Pyhäjoki by sea (Ryoko Akama, Antye Greie-Ripatti)

– “Radiactive geocaching,” a game with geiger counters (Martin Howse, Erich Berger)

– “Thank you for net selling your land to nuclear,” a sign by Highway 8 (Bonnie Fortune, Brett Bloom, Daniela Palimariu)

– Walking mediation (Pik Ki Leung)

– Case Pyhäjoki Show & Tell day at Parhalahti school (all)
