---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: a_Hitchhike_to_Utopia.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Jamie Gannon'
title: A HITCHHIKE TO UTOPIA
first_performed: first performed on September 5, 2013
place: On the pavement between Superior and Franklin, Chicago, IL
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: DANIELA EHEMANN AND CARRON LITTLE
collaborators: []
home: Berlin, Germany / Chicago, IL
links:
- carronlittle.com
contact: ehedan@gmx.de / carronlittle@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- architecture
- city
- clothes
- clothes cross-dress
- discourse
- drag
- duration
- map
- urban
- virtual
pages: 396-397
---

Do not forget your towel! The performance, “A Hitchhike to Utopia,” was a planned evolution of an earlier performance titled “Cities of a Floating World.” Through virtual conferencing, “Cities of a Floating World” united Berlin and Chicago audiences in a discourse on how they might build cities they would like to live in. Dealing with ideas of occupied space in an urban context and with specific references to Berlin and Chicago’s modernist architecture and forms, “A Hitchhike to Utopia” developed over time into a repository for utopian architectural ideas. Performing as “Female Drag Queen Moon Rakers,” we hiked alongside actual modernist city structures in a euphoric walk. Traveling separately at first, we followed opposing lines of the Chicago grid plan with all the tools of a hitchhiker—a map, a backpack and water.

We united near the end of our hike and performed cooperatively on dual islands, discovering new ways to adapt within the context of the modern day cityscape. “A Hitchhike to Utopia” transported the audience through a series of unreal, thought provoking scenes in the middle of urban Chicago and allowed them to discover and create new models of co-existence. “A Hitchhike to Utopia” was a durational performance lasting three hours.
