---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: Poultry_Paradise_&_Its_Discontents.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Hiroshi Shafer + Kikuko Tanaka'
title: 'POULTRY PARADISE AND ITS DISCONTENTS: NIGHTSHIFTS'
first_performed: first performed on September 6, 2013
place: Panoply Performance Laboratory, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: KIKUKO TANAKA
collaborators:
- Eric Heist
- Phillip Gulley
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- kikoworld.net
contact: pissqueen@kikoworld.net
footnote: ''
tags:
- autobiography
- book
- Christianity
- collectivity
- de Gouges, Olympe
- de Lautreamont, Comte
- erection
- human
- immigrant
- job
- library
- loneliness
- love letter
- Marxism
- melodrama
- penis
- phallus
- philosophy
- play
- posing
- Rancière, Jacques
- revolution
- revolution French Revolution
- sex
- sex masturbation
- Shelley, Mary
- spectator
- story
- surveillance
- terror
- text
- text letter
- theater
- theater play
- theory
- theory Marxist
- worker
pages: 414-415
---

“They were themselves intellectuals, as is anyone and everyone. They were visitors and spectators, like the researcher who a century and a half later read their letters in a library, like the visitors of Marxist theory or the distributors of leaflets at factory gates.” —Jacques Rancière, _The Emancipated Spectator_

In my first decade in the U.S., I worked at a nightclub. When I was bored, I entertained myself by imagining other night workers awake throughout the night. There were some surveillance cameras there, and I imagined a person on the other end of the cameras who would probably not be looking at us at all.

Partly based on a displaced and imaginary autobiography, “Poultry Paradise and its Discontents” is a nightmarish farce or melodrama framed as a “tragic theater play” which invites spectators to contemplate the blurred distinction between individuality and collectivity, the function of literary/artistic canons, the relationship between artist/intellectuals and plebeians and the infectiousness of enlightenment and democracy.

The performance begins as a reception where I pose as an 18th century-society-lady, socializing with the audience and encouraging them to visit my art & philosophy salon. I praise the play in an overly exaggerated manner, claiming that “this play has changed my whole life. Overwhelmed by a sense of pity, I emerged from a bale of tears as a completely new person!”

I disappear into the backroom and reappear as a security guard. I sit in front of the large split security monitor that displays the quiet scenes of a library, a poultry factory and a live-surveillance of the spectators themselves. I completely neglect my job and begin reciting from a thick mysterious black book.

The texts are sampled to emphasize the most ridiculous or problematic sections of _Maldoror_ by Comte de Lautreamont and _Frankenstein_ by Mary Shelley, which may resemble the experience of a “non-Western immigrant security guard.” The Mystery Book includes the story of a self-marginalizing lonely hermaphrodite longing for membership in human society, attempting to learn their human language and sentiment. The story, like _Frankenstein_, covertly expresses the supremacy of Christianity and Western democratic virtue over the Orientals.

As I read, I begin touching my loins and eventually pull out a many-headed phallus from my pants. I recite, masturbate and sob through the rest of the performance. The text culminates in the concept of the “rights of who does not have rights” that Olympe de Gouges, a revolutionary playwright, fashioned at the wake of the modern world. The performance ends as I read the scene of the decapitation of Olympe de Gouges at the hands of revolutionary terror.
