---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: WAR_IV.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Hiroshi Shafer'
title: WAR IV
first_performed: first performed on September 28, 2013
place: Grace Exhibition Space, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed three times in 2013
contributor: IVY CASTELLANOS
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- ivycastellanos.com
contact: ivsoldiers@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- abstraction
- action
- body
- construction
- duration
- energy
- gesture
- human
- human human body
- information
- narrative
- objects
- objects balloon
- objects paper
- performance art
- silence
- stilts
pages: 468-469
---

I create abstract performance art centered around the human body. Humans are as powerful as their constructions and their efforts at preserving their own tool: the body. These constructions are meant to protect the longevity of the human, allowing it to navigate seamlessly through life. The constructed objects I create are blended extensions of myself and abstractly resemble the body. Crumbs and debris often remain from the actions, while silence fills the audience during the final moments of my performances. The gestures and movements are often unpredictable and the narrative is left for the viewer to define. The small hints of flesh that are seen by the viewer amplify the strain on my body that accelerates throughout a work. The content in the work is always abstract, and any hint of information further complicates a definition or reason for the actions. The work is powerful, lasting and intense and must be seen in person in order to feel the full energy of the performance.

This specific performance involves two sets of stilts and trash bags. This was a durational four-hour long performance. I wore a smaller set of stilts to begin and, by shaking the black garbage bags, created four balloon bags and dropped them to the floor (A fan was placed in the corner so each bag would sway). There was a note for viewers to read aloud. The message said: “A little bird in the window sill, I reeled him in, with crumbs of bread. It came inside, I blew off its fucking head.”

I changed to larger stilts and proceeded to smash each bag. There was also black shredded paper being ripped during the stilt transition. At the end of the four hours, I went to my hands and knees and picked up every shred of paper and plastic.
