---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: behavioural_architecture.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Ryan Forneri'
title: BEHAVIOUR ARCHITECTURE
first_performed: first performed on October 5, 2013
place: 401 Richmond, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: TIMEANDDESIRE / DENISE ST MARIE, TIMOTHY WALKER
collaborators: []
home: Toronto, Ontario, Canada
links:
- timeanddesire.com
contact: contact@timeanddesire.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- architecture
- citizenship
- city
- construction
- dance
- gallery
- intervention
- makeover
- music
- passersby
- re-making
- reconstruction
- slideshow
- text
- text signage
- urban
- worker
pages: 488-489
---

Dressed as traditionally equipped Re-construction Workers in hardhats and fluorescent vests, we employ the existing effect of city signage to re-construct an area of the public. The performative interventions ask citizens to engage in a more playful way throughout the cityscape.

“Behavior Architecture” is a three-part experience for the viewer/participant.

Part I: We were given a corridor and seating area at 401 Richmond across from Gallery 44, where our process of assembling the signage components could be watched, questioned and understood by the viewers. A slideshow on the large blank wall was projected behind us, a slowly-looped selection of projects both independently and collaboratively done by us.

Part II: We changed into our Re-construction Worker uniforms. Followed by videographer Ryan Forneri and audience members, we walked our equipment and signage to the nearby intersection Spadina Ave and Queen St West. At this location, we installed the newly completed signs that said “Dance Freely Between these Signs” alongside dancing iconography.

Part III: The signs were left, along with a ghetto blaster containing a mix CD of dance music and chained to one of the sign poles. Passersby were left to interact and complete the final and third part of the work.

This project was part of BUILT FOR ART: Practice, Practice, an independent project for Scotiabank Nuit Blanche 2013 curated by Alice Dixon and Evan Tyler and produced by Urbanspace Property Group and Erin MacKeen.
