---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: GWCinvestigators.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Michael Welsh'
title: GWC, INVESTIGATORS
first_performed: first performed on October 12, 2013
place: Sitgreaves National Forest, Heber, AZ
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: GWC, INVESTIGATORS / DANIEL J GLENDENING, MICHAEL WELSH & SEAN JOSEPH
  PATRICK CARNEY
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY / Portland, OR
links:
- gwcinvestigators.com
contact: gwcinvestigators@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- audio recording
- climate
- data
- geology
- human
- human human consciousness
- installation
- landscape
- pollution
- psychology
- research
- tape recording
- UFO
- witness
pages: 504-505
---

For HDTS 2013, GWC INVESTIGATORS engaged in a period of intensive on-site investigation into extraterrestrial experiences and the UFO phenomenon. During the week of October 12-19, GWC set up base camp in Northern Arizona, an area with a higher-than-average number of UFO sightings or interactions. As an investigative team, GWC conducted intensive field research, including audio and video recordings and data collection on light pollution, celestial movements, local flora and fauna and topography, as well as eyewitness accounts from local residents. While embedded, GWC also constructed temporary and non-invasive site markers at geographical points of interest linked to our findings, movements and sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects. Our investigations sought correlations between sightings and geographical sites: in what ways does the landscape or climate of northern Arizona affect human psychology and the frequency of UFO sightings? Are sightings more prevalent at dawn or dusk? Are sightings influenced by ground topography or by geologic features?

The group’s base camp, located at GPS coordinates 34.302252, -110.642982 was the site of the alleged 1975 abduction of Arizona logger Travis Walton, the subject of the film _Fire in the Sky_. Walton’s accounts of his abduction, corroborated by several eye witness members of his logging crew, is one of the most fascinating abduction stories, as it has been impossible to disprove. Furthermore, all parties involved  swear by their original accounts, to this day.

Following the field investigation, GWC, Investigators is currently working on collating their findings for the purpose of an installation-based exhibition at some point in 2014 that will document this immersive and nontraditional performance.
