---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: dreamer.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Ximena Izquierdo Ugaz'
title: DREAMER
first_performed: first performed on October 14, 2013
place: Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, MA
times_performed: performed three times in 2013
contributor: BRYAN RODRIGUEZ
collaborators: []
home: Boston, MA
links: []
contact: monsterscollective29@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- bank
- erection
- exchange
- humor
- identity
- knowledge
- Latin America
- Latin America Latina
- money
- penis
- phallus
- photograph
- race
- race white privilege
- text
- text postcard
pages: 512-513
---

I am interested in spaces of great importance to knowledge, culture and economy. From my observations, these spaces tend to rely on excess and largeness to present a sort of American magnitude. I want to investigate the significance of my body within these spaces and the possible and humorous effects of my inability to relate to them because of their excessive privilege, thus unveiling layers of my identity through completely opposite means (George Washington, money and specific knowledge). As a Latina, my exchanges with these spaces engage with ideas of assimilation and the complicated internal and physical responses these produce.

In “Dreamer,” I visited the Museum of Fine Arts, the Boston Public Library and the Bank of America, where I wandered until I became erect. The process, lasting as long as two to three hours, is documented through texts that, for the most part, vaguely and briefly describe my observations and frustrations as I attempt to arouse myself. The photographs present the outcome of the visits, reactions of boredom and distraction due to a framework of emotional distance.

I have decided to photograph myself in areas prioritized by each space in order to further complicate the process. These chosen areas are typically ones that are held with admiration because of their age and status as first structures. These images were later sent to these spaces in the form of postcards, as well placed in them for others to take.
