---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: favorite_way_to_die.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: Charles Dennis'
title: FAVORITE WAY TO DIE RIGHT NOW, IN THIS ROOM (WORKING TITLE)
first_performed: first performed on October 18, 2013
place: BHQF, New York, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: SELENA
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY
links:
- tar-tar.biz
contact: drtsky@aol.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- death
- laughter
- performance art
- text
- text prompt
pages: 524-525
---

I created this piece in response to a prompt given by Dora Budor to make an artistic work of approximately 1.5 minutes called “Favorite Way to Die Right Now, In This Room (working title).” I was very happy to have the opportunity to use somebody else’s prompt, because otherwise I tend to get overwhelmed by possibilities and never do anything. This assignment was particularly relevant to my life because I often think about dying. I decided the best way to die in this room (which was a classroom) would be to choke quietly in the corner on a hotdog. I generally consider myself a spoken word artist, but I enjoyed the opportunity to begin expanding my practice to include “performance art”; this was an exploration of that, although I am still not entirely sure what “that” is. Either way, it was a relief to have the bulk of the performance be a wordless, purely physical act. I introduced myself and then placed napkins on my lap. I asked the audience to imagine that they couldn’t see me. Then I stuck my index finger straight out and poured a significant amount of ketchup on it. At that point, I began to eat my finger and gradually, steadily choke on it. I applied more ketchup to the finger as needed. After about 1.5 minutes of choking, I announced to the class that I would probably be dead by now because nobody did anything. They were just watching me and laughing but it was a truly joyous death, I have to say.
