---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: i_chingy.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: BHQFU'
title: I CHINGY
first_performed: first performed on November 1, 2013
place: BHQFU, New York, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: VICTORIA ANNE REIS
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- neonocean.wordpress.com
contact: metatronicsolid@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- attention
- audience
- chance
- conversation
- I Ching
- objects
- objects snowflakes
- reading
- text
pages: 558-559
---

The performance took place on my half-birthday, and was presented as an offering from me to the audience. Inspired by the _I Ching_, an ancient Chinese divination text, I had previously prepared 64 index-sized cards, each with its own signature “fortune.” Each fortune had two parts. One side of each card had a pair of snowflakes sourced from Wikimedia Commons; eight different snowflakes with 64 total permutations, so that each card had a different pair of snowflakes. On the other side of the cards were koans, or verbal imagery, inspired by each of the 64 potential outcomes of the _I Ching_.

The performance began with my “onstage” explanation of the cards, which I then offered to audience members. Audience members selected cards for themselves from the “deck,” while I circulated through the audience. The performance concluded with an “onstage” reading of some audience members’ verbal fortunes, which I then orally corresponded with the correlative _I Ching_ outcomes.

This performance was designed to explore the relationship between individuals and the collective consciousness as mediated by attention and chance; and, in its framing as an offering, speaks directly to my desire to treat art like a gift (“beyond commerce”). The performance is in conversation with Joseph Cornell’s shadowboxes, which he gave to celebrities as presents, and also to candy-raver culture’s trading or offering of candy bracelets or other trinkets to new friends during raves.

The performance was the first in a series of performances and artworks for my “Gummi Cheeseburger” movement, which makes replicas cuter and sweeter than the originals.
