---
layout: project
volume: '2013'
image: F_DT_DOOR_BUSTERZ.jpg
photo_credit: 'Photo credit: future death toll'
title: F-DT DOOR BUSTERZ $0.00‰
first_performed: first performed on November 29, 2013
place: Panoply Performance Laboratory, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2013
contributor: FUTURE DEATH TOLL
collaborators: []
home: Portland, OR / Brooklyn, NY
links:
- f-dt.com
contact: info@futuredeathtoll.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- action
- action collective action
- architecture
- authority
- breath
- cell phone
- children
- children childhood
- crocheting
- death
- Happening
- human
- human human body
- Kaprow, Allan
- melodrama
- music
- music DJ
- objects
- objects water
- participatory action
- sewing
- telephone
- text
- text description
- Warhol, Andy
- website
pages: 628-629
---

	“I never think that people die. They just go to department stores.”

	—Andy Warhol

	“In this context of achievement-and-death, artists who make Happenings are living out the purest melodrama. Their activity embodies the myth of nonsuccess, for Happenings cannot be sold and taken home; they can only be supported…”

	—Allan Kaprow

From 6 am to 6 pm on 11/29/13, 120 actionz lasting 6 minutes each took place at the Panoply Performance Laboratory in Brooklyn, New York. A description of each action, a 6 minute countdown status bar and a dj horn sample to signify the end of each action were projected live via the web. Archive here: http://bit.ly/doorbusterz

50 (of 120) actionz:

	1. sprinkle glitter 2. 6 bagz in mouth 3. take off shirt/pantz, put on backwardz 4. write 6 $6.66 checkz 5. read 6L of text 6. put shirt on head & move 7. write 6 wordz on a body 8. $666 website shopping 9. recite 10. nothing 11. shake 12. say housing ad 13. bag mic 14. floor contact 15. water 16. body scan put me in coach 17. say price/desc. 18. wave receipt in the air 19. be louder than those around 20. yell freely w/o doubt 21.wind and sea & roar’o gas enginez 22. hum along w/ power generator 23. move diagonally 24. resemble a telephone pole 25. bag shake 26. say sorry into a bag 27. yell w/ refrigerator, yell w/ local authority, yell w/ politician 28. maintain a sense of purpose 29. fill trash bag with air 30. whisper sorry 31. rip & sew shirt’s sleeve 32. notice architecture 33. look out window 34. eat 35. changed into pure seeing, I will absorb, as before, the proportionz of human bodiez, the color of irisez, a paris street in june at dawn, all of it incomprehensible, incomprehensible the multitude of visible thingz 36. say random linez of text 37. go outside 38. march in a line 39. read text quietly 40. tell everyone they are an authority 41. baghead walk in sq. pattern 42. lean over 43. alternate falling 44. jump while the contact mic is on floor 45. breath is audible 46. slowly in a large circle 47. let observationz guide movement 48. say childhood memoriez (walk backwardz) 49. say memoriez about free 50. rotate arms in circlez
