---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: LIGHT-BLUE-BLUE-LIGHT.jpg
photo_credit: DEAD ART STAR
title: LIGHT BLUE BLUE LIGHT
first_performed: first performed on March 14, 2015
place: "#CASTLEDRONE, Boston, MA"
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: DEAD ART STAR
collaborators: []
home: Boston, MA
links:
- deadartstar.com
contact: xoxo@deadartstar.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- ceremony
- corpse
- death
- health
- identity
- internet
- laughter
- lynching
- murder
- online
- persona
- ritual
- sleeping
- symbolism
pages: 064-065
---

In “light blue blue light,” I experimented with ways of accessing a dormant part of my identity. In 2010, I developed DEAD ART STAR, an online and live performance-based persona that explored the dark aspects of celebrity and ritual. Over time, indulging in this darkness affected my physical and mental health negatively, so I took a break from performing under this nom de guerre for nearly two years. Returning to performance art with this piece, I challenged myself to resurrect this older form of self-presentation while maintaining a sense of control over my identity.

The performance started as I extinguished all the lights in the room and created a runway out of thirty electronic tealight candles. I revealed one of my childhood stuffed animals: a light blue creature named Chiggles, who releases a series of electronic beeps that echo like laughter when activated by touch. In the center of the runway, I dropped to do push-ups, my face pressing into Chiggles, who laughed with each rep.

Afterward, I flipped on a clamp light, flooding the room in a light blue hue. Motivated by a dream where DEAD ART STAR’s ancient demonic spirit appeared to me underneath a mirror’s surface, I peered into a mirror with a flashlight, searching for the demon inside, and found nothing. It was time to resurrect my former persona. I invoked DEAD ART STAR by drawing the demon onto the mirror’s surface with white makeup and gargling cabernet sauvignon, which I slowly spat onto the mirror. I painted my face with thick, crude white marks, therefore embodying him.

I extinguished the lights again, leaving only the candles to light the room. Then I threatened audience members one by one, singling them out by pointing the flashlight directly into their faces as a line from _Night of the Living Dead_ repeated over and over again from an audio recording (“They’re coming to get you, Barbara”).

Once the ceremony concluded, it was time to put the demon to sleep, which I enacted by tucking him under a blanket of wigs. As I rested under the blanket, I clutched Chiggles, who laughed periodically, until the audience realized the performance was over and, one by one, moved on. In performing this symbolic act, I asserted control over DEAD ART STAR: I can decide when to use this persona and when to put it to bed.
