---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: hope_so_hard.jpg
photo_credit: Eyal Perry
title: HOPE SO HARD
first_performed: first performed on March 27, 2015
place: Glasshouse, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: GEORGIA WALL & ITAMAR SEGEV
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links: []
contact: georgiarrwall@gmail.com / mritamarsegev@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- awakening
- dance
- desire
- nudity
- poetry
- sex
- song
- video
pages: 072-073
---

“Hope so Hard” was born from a desire to understand what ignites moments 
of awakening.

Where do these moments arise and fall from?

Where do they belong on the slippery spectrum which all sexual or spiritual moments exist within?

1. Georgia comes on stage and performs a devotional dance, she finishes and sits on a chair.

2. Itamar comes and sits on her lap. Tries to fit in her arms like a baby, he is too big.

THE PERFORMANCE GOES ON

They have a first and only moment of synchronized movement their bodies are shapes music is introduced hiccups of a video of a glorious sunset Georgia saw once in India music stops Itamar is behind Georgia They are moving first like a prayer then like fucking he is whispering a story into her ear and she is telling the audience it ends with her repeating the punchline with a New York Jewish accent this girl Mary got into trouble once so she made up a story Itamar signs a Hebrew song about a man who lost his lover to God Georgia signs over him What’s Up by 4 NON BLONDES she stops singing and interrupts him they both go back to the chair it is prom night and they are almost naked smiling for the camera.

11/3/15

Hey Love,

Attached is my response poem

...

Sometimes I’m singing your praises

When your tongue is inside my anus

When your spit is leaving its traces

On the places that once were my own.

Sometimes I cry when I’m cumming

While your lungs they are doing they’re humming,

And I pray that someday you’ll quit smoking

And your poop will come out on its own.

Sometimes i inside my outsides

And spill over my down to find bright side

And the world she just turns on her axis

And your tongue it turns into my soul

…

xo

Ita
