---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: bridal-bridle.jpg
photo_credit: George Skepton
title: BRIDAL/BRIDLE
first_performed: first performed on April 2, 2015
place: Gallery 788, Baltimore, MD
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: JENNA BOYLES
collaborators: []
home: Chicago, IL
links:
- jennaboyles.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- audience
- desire
- interaction
- intimacy
- marriage
- network
- symbolism
- transformation
- wedding
pages: '082-083'
---

The performance took place during a crowded gallery opening. I entered the room wearing a garment made of white fabric and pantyhose. In the foot of each stocking was a stone. I slowly walked through the gallery with my eyes cast to the floor. The stones trailed behind me, a heavy train. I circled the room and proceeded to the center as people began to take notice of my presence. I lifted a stone from the floor and held it in my hand. Looking around at the audience I silently made eye contact with one person and stretched out my hand. Some people backed away, others showed interest but declined my offering. Then the stone was accepted and taken from my hand. I pulled away and the pantyhose stretched as I reached for another stone. This continued until all the stones were handed to an audience member. Through this act, we became a physically connected network. While the weight of dragging the stones was lifted from my body, I became ensnared. My body was harnessed by the audience. I remained in this tensile state until the first stone was dropped, an inevitable but unpredictable action that signaled the beginning of the performance’s end. I picked up the fallen stone and the others that followed suit. Cradling them in my arms, I did not let the stones fall back to the ground. I held my hand out to take back the stones I had offered to those who did not let them drop. With my arms full, I once again circled the room before exiting, but this time with my eyes on the audience. We had shared intimacy. They knew the weight I carried though now it was mine again it was changed by their touch.

Social stigmas around marriage and the pressure I feel to get married along with my conflicting desires and fears on the subject prompted this piece. The concept was based on vulnerable extension of oneself through give and take with the goal of transformation through interaction with the audience. The white garment with stones functioned as a symbolic tool. Ultimately the performance is dependent on the audience. The above description recounts the only time it was performed. If it were to be performed multiple times I imagine the interactions would vary.
