---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: ASTERIA_Christine_Bonansea_INDEX-Recovered.jpg
photo_credit: Yvonne Porta
title: ASTERIA
first_performed: first performed on May 1, 2015
place: Danspace Project at St Mark’s Church, NYC, NY
times_performed: performed eight times in 2015
contributor: CHRISTINE BONANSEA COMPANY
collaborators:
- Jorge Bachmann
- Danishta Rivero
home: New York City, NY
links: []
contact: christine.bonansea@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- cycle
- cyclical systems
- dance
- durational performance
- memory
- multiplicity
- mythology
- repetition
- score
- sound
- symbolism
- temporality
- time
- transformation
pages: 112-113
---

“Asteria” is a choreographic project that questions temporality.

The piece is created through an iterative process of composition using the concept of “eternal recurrence”—a central point in the writings of Nietzsche: with infinite time and a finite number of events, events continue to recur again and again infinitely. According to the philosopher’s view, the eternal recurrence proposition is proof of the absurdity or meaningless of life, proof that no meaning was given to the universe from above.

I create a recurrent choreographic structure, developed with a cyclical alternation of the material. Each "Asteria" elaborates new parameters of variation and comparison that discuss the concept of “eternal recurrence.” I chose a mythical Greek figure—Asteria—to incarnate the multiplicity, a symbol of potential and interpretation. I compose the variety of "Asteria" soli with a cast of international and multicultural women.

In a cyclic energetic space, the soli occurrences interconnect and reveal the potential body transformation through the time. Each woman solo, pointless and chaotic, explores the possible physical differences. Executed in juxtaposition, or separately, they create the shuffling of the body matter and the cycle of repetition in finite spaces. The immediate memory of each body is erased by an emergent one, generating a new relationship to the space. These dances emphasize the gravity of the space with concentric and eccentric directional choreographic movements toward the audience. Their accidental interactions eventually create continuous physical tensions and new connections despite their differences.

The key collaborators are Jorge Bachmann and Danishta Rivero. Jorge’s sound palette for "Asteria" is based on processed urban field recordings and Serge analog synth sounds which allow him to explore abstract and cyclical scenery as motifs to describe the idea of the plurality of "Asteria." The sound score supports the choreographic composition, it energizes the space, revealing its density, creating a matrix of illusion and disillusion.

Rivero uses a Digital Delay pedal and sets feedback to infinity creating the effect of a “sample and hold.” This effect allows one to be in all of the sound produced at the same time. It creates a sound environment that is stacked on itself live. Every moment in one. The final project will present a durational piece that reflects the cyclical alternations of the "Asteria" iterations. The audience will be able to observe and experience temporality as they circulate around the cyclic energetic space.
