---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: Hector_Canonge_TRANSPLANT_Athens_Greece_2015.jpg
photo_credit: Andreas Pashias for Hector Canonge. Copyright © Canonge 2015.
title: TRANSPLANT
first_performed: first performed on June 5, 2015
place: EPITELESIS Performance Art Foundation at Academy of Athens, Athens, Greece
times_performed: performed four times in 2015
contributor: HECTOR CANONGE
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY
links:
- hectorcanonge.net
contact: hector@hectorcanonge.net / hectorcanonge@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- displacement
- intervention
- transformation
pages: 160-161
---

“Transplant” is a live art public intervention that evokes the displacement of individuals and their struggle to be rooted in new territories. Based on the notion of (re)moving plants from their natural habitat to be placed in artificial environments, the project also explores the temporary connections that can be established between strangers.

Implementation: I wear white overalls brought from Latin America, my head is inside a large artificial buxi ball made in China, and I carry daisy flowers in my arms. I appear behind the columns of the Academy of Athens, and slowly, make my way descending the stairs to reach the avenue to take a long walk around the park. While walking, I offer strangers a flower. They are invited to take the flower and to put it on my head. The long stems sometimes hurt my face. Slowly, passersby and people in the park begin to transform my green buxi ball of head into something colorful. When I reach the highest part of the stairs, I begin to take off my plastic head, and proceed to take the petals of the flowers with my mouth. When my mouth gets full of petals, and I can no longer put anything else in my mouth, I spit the white petals towards the sky with great force. I do the same action until there are no flowers left. To finish, I hold my green head on my hand and raise it over the space as an offering to the public.
