---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: Liberty_and_Justice_for_All_(1).jpg
photo_credit: Thomas Bell
title: LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL
first_performed: first performed on June 5, 2015
place: Grattan St during Bushwick Open Studios, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed twice in 2015
contributor: THOMAS BELL
collaborators: []
home: Detroit, MI
links:
- twin72.com
contact: twin72@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- African American
- Black
- police
- race
- symbolism
- violence
pages: 162-163
---

With recent media attention over the past few years to the injustices against black men in the United States of America, in particular, by police officers, it is painfully apparent that there is not liberty and justice for all. In “Liberty and Justice for All,” while dressed in a hazardous materials demolition suit, helmet, goggles, and respirator, I begin reciting the Pledge of Allegiance through a megaphone. Before I get to the words, “liberty and justice for all” a volunteer duct tapes my mouth shut. Two additional volunteers have red and blue tape rolls and attach the tape to my legs. I begin spinning in a circle reciting the Pledge of Allegiance, mumbling through the duct tape and each time I stop before the last words, “liberty and justice for all.” As I spin faster and faster the tape wraps around me and begins to restrict my movement and I become so dizzy that I crash into the street. When I am able to stand, I repeat the process over again, and each time I crash to the ground, inflicting self harm onto my body, until I can’t take it anymore. The repeated, self-inflicted act of violence symbolizes the repeated and unnecessary acts of violence that the police inflict on young black males in the United States of America. It is my hope that all of the people of the United States will reach a point where they cannot take it anymore, as well, and bring a stop to this insanity.
