---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: Obras_de_Un_Dia.jpg
photo_credit: Javier Hernández
title: OBRAS DE UN DIA
first_performed: first performed on June 20, 2015
place: ESPACIO KUU, Mexico City, Mexico
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: ESPACIO KUU / KAROLIINA SANDSTROM, NADIA CUEVAS, ISABEL DOMÍNGUEZ, ESTEFANNY
  GARCÍA, JAVIER HERNÁNDEZ
collaborators:
- Mexico
home: ''
links:
- espaciokuu.weebly.com
contact: espaciokuu@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- dance
- presence
pages: 178-179
---

“Obras de Un Dia” was born out of the need to work in a state of emergency—to be fully present with the threat of not having much time to complete what needs to be done before we die, the emergency to live fully. We wanted to create the show in only 24 hours, with no prior preparation, with the notion of living as if we would die when those hours were over. Through this premise we explored the true dreams, the true priorities, and the true need to forgive and heal before we left this life. We asked ourselves: who is it we want to be? How do we want to live? What must I do, if this is my last opportunity!

With this same sense of emergency, we only presented the show one time. Only one opportunity for us as creators and actors to give everything we had left in this life and gift it through the work. Through this focus we played and drew on the notion of time and space. This focus made us base a lot of the material on deepening our presence in the present moment and our experience of being in this particular world. 23 hours 56 minutes and 4.1 seconds is one day, 1436 minutes is a day, 86,160 seconds is one day, 37658.4 meters of turning (at 20 degrees latitude) is one day, 2,574,692.88 kilometres walking on a road is one day. The play text was created in the 24 hours prior to our premiere and looped and looped back to the living experience of seconds, minutes, distances, and the deep and extremely energetic sense of living, once we commit to life as if there is only a little left, as if each second counts. I must love, now! I must heal, now!

Through a journey of bringing into the present the experience of healing pains, of seeing oneself and forgiving, and being committed to be totally present, “Obras de Un Dia” ended in a thanks giving of the presence of the audience and the recognition of their dreams which must be fulfilled now. The actors spoke to each audience member, one by one, gifting them with their perfect day, and thanks giving their unique characteristics of presence. In the end, each audience member danced the ‘last dance’ with an actor.
