---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: life_among_rocks.jpg
photo_credit: Ricardo H. Nelson
title: LIFE AMONG ROCKS
first_performed: first performed on August 23, 2015
place: Hayden Lord Park, City, State
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: SHIZU HOMMA
collaborators: []
home: New York, NY
links:
- shizuhomma.weebly.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- animal
- dance
- environment
- human
pages: 234-235
---

I created a twelve-minute, site-specific dance work in silence under the artistic guidance of Joanna Haigood, through the organization Dancing in the Streets (DITS). It was a free performance open to the public on a Sunday afternoon alongside three other choreographers.

Inspired by the permaculture certification intensive I took in July 2015, and the fact that I had been living in temporary homes since 2011, I made a work that dealt with ideas around humans, animals, and the environment. I have been convinced more and more that humans are equal to animals, especially since encountering spiders, bees, a coyote, and a baby wolf in 2014 while renovating and living in another person’s bungalow.

The part of the park I chose to structure my dance around had rocks, a wall, a gate behind the wall, nearby buildings, a climbing structure with bouncy flooring, and several man-made structures. The rocks, walls, and flooring were very hot in the August Bronx sun; rehearsals were in the afternoons as the park was closed mornings and evenings. To try to minimize blistering, I wore gloves during rehearsals and taped up my feet during the performance. Pierreot Carrilero made the costume for the piece, which included sleeves and a hood that recalled themes of civilization, savagery, and animalism.
