---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: Good-Food-Responsibility!.jpg
photo_credit: Rachel Merriman-Goldring
title: GOOD? FOOD? RESPONSIBILITY!
first_performed: first performed on October 20, 2015
place: 'CAFO Culture: Visualizing Factory Farming in Virginia exhibition, Williamsburg,
  VA'
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: ADA XIAOYU HAO
collaborators: []
home: Williamsburg, VA
links:
- adahao.com
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- absurdism
- daily life
- dance
- eating
- everyday
- food
- Futurist manifesto
- meat
- song
pages: 304-305
---

Good? Food? Responsibility!

“Think, dream, and act according to what they eat and drink.” Ever since Filippo Tommaso Marinetti’s Futurist manifesto, there have always been aesthetic associations between food and culture.

For this performance piece, I used the structure of the art gallery and certain conventions of eating as an outlet for investigations into everyday life situations through a level of abstraction, exaggeration, and absurdity, which are alternative models for substituting relations between human and animal, the individual and society.

I am hosting a dinner party in the gallery.

	Captain Smith and Pocahontas

	had a very mad affair

Playing Peggy Lee’s song Fever from my phone, I used my eyes, nose, lips, limbs, and each inch square of my body to enjoy, to dance with and to present this pile of fleshy meat, which I had brought onto the “stage” in a grocery shopping bag. Toward the end of the performance, after collecting preferences from the audience, I prepared this beef tartare with conventional cooking methods, beginning with the seasoning.

To pepper the food, I prepared it with flavors from the social sphere (like ecological protests and (u)topian ideologies of factory farming), and I adapted the advertising slogan from a popular meat production brand in order to present to you “Good? Food? Responsibility!”
