---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: Performance_on_flow_and_boudaries.jpg
photo_credit: Caterina Gobbi
title: PERFORMANCE ON FLOW AND BOUNDARIES
first_performed: first performed on November 4, 2015
place: Mount Morrone, Braemar, Scotland
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: CATERINA GOBBI
collaborators:
- Italy
home: ''
links:
- caterinagobbi.com
contact: info@caterinagobbi.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- body
- nature
pages: 316-317
---

My recent performance “Performance on flow and boundaries,” is part of a series that wants to investigate diffferent direct and physical approaches to various natural elements. Covered only with a piece of fabric, and standing in the strong stream of a windy hill in Scotland, I wanted to show the weakness but also the strength of the body in nature. Employing feelings of empathy and submission, I’ve concentrated on trying to mutate, augment, and abolish the boundaries of my own self, by the direct and violent imposition of the wind onto my body.

I believe in what I call a liquid body, a body that is not enclosed in its skin but is directly depended on the environment in which it is in. This idea questions reflections such as: where does my body stand in space, where are its boundaries? What does it mean to exist? Am I what is inside or outside my layer of skin? How strong is the dependence on the aether around me?

I think we have a strong inborn dependence on nature, even though we might not notice it in our daily city life. Our body is the result of the complex systems we are in, social, natural, etc. By standing in such a vulnerable setting in this performance, I wanted to underline the concept of the body’s being. Especially in a world where, now with the major presence of technology, we tend to forget of our physical presence.
