---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: art_for_rich_people_to_stand_on.jpg
photo_credit: Diane Dwyer
title: ART FOR RICH PEOPLE TO STAND ON
first_performed: first performed on November 14, 2015
place: Itinerant Performance Festival, Queens Museum, Queens, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: DIANE DWYER
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links:
- dianedwyer.info
contact: diane@dianedwyer.info
footnote: ''
tags:
- conversation
- design
- dialogue
- discussion
- distortion
- economic crisis
- economics
- economy
- finance
- labor
- participation
- work
pages: 340-341
---

For this participatory performance, I created a painting with swirls that mimic my life-long doodle. The painting is a performative, labor-intensive aspect of the piece, in that it took months to make. The process was quite meditative, and made me think a lot about the difference between abstract painting and design. The canvas was treated with polyurethane, so that it could function as a traditional floor cloth that could withstand foot traffic.

For the performance, I laid the painting upon the floor. I placed a sign next to the painting that stated: “ART FOR RICH PEOPLE TO STAND ON.” Beside it, I placed a box of shoe covers for participants to wear.

This performance proposes questions and hopefully, discussions. Who stands on it? Who feels like they are entitled to? It is a performance enacted as people choose to participate or not. (In truth, most of us are far richer than the global standard… but who identifies as such?)

Our creative economy does not serve artists. How are makers supposed to negotiate the need for patronage in this disturbing and distorted economy? Can design, craft, and art that requires extensive time and labor only be made with significant financial support? Is this work only for those who can afford it?
