---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: BURNING_WOMAN.jpg
photo_credit: Nina Isabelle
title: BURNING WOMAN
first_performed: first performed on December 19, 2015
place: Rosekill, Rosendale, New York
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: FEMINIST ART GROUP
collaborators: []
home: Brooklyn, NY
links: []
contact: feministartgroup@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- sculpture
- video
pages: 376-377
---

Built a structure using surrounding natural materials from the Rosekill, NY landscape. The natural debris was the source for the construction held together by hammering nails into the wood. There was a request from Jill McDermind of Grace Exhibition Space and Rosekill to build a burning woman installation for the Winter Solstice. This idea was generated by Adriana Magaña of the 90s band Crash Worship. The result was the construction of a collectively made sculpture and one large figure to ‘burn.’ The image is of the build and the result was one large 20 ft structure with a Juniper root head engulfed in flames.

For us the building of the structure was the performance. We created video vignettes of the building process. Artists gathering materials loading and unloading abstract actions, gestures, and decisions that directly affected the result of the sculpture. These actions also evolved the work into something different. We had no specific plan of what the object would look like. The Feminist Art Group style of performance is task based. We create a task and execute it, which often involves constructing or de-constructing objects while different artists are curated into the work which leads to different results. Our work centers around building as performative action with Feminist bodies.
