---
layout: project
volume: '2015'
image: A_PRESENT.jpg
photo_credit: William Skaleski
title: A PRESENT
first_performed: first performed on December 21, 2015
place: Artist’s studio, Milwaukee, WI
times_performed: performed once in 2015
contributor: WILLIAM SKALESKI
collaborators: []
home: Milwaukee, WI
links:
- vimeo.com/williamskaleski
contact: williamskaleski@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- consciousness
- prayer
pages: 378-379
---

I made this performance as a birthday present for a friend I made this year. She had highly expressed her interest in my past work on our first hangout together. Not many of my close friends have shown this much curiosity in my work so I made a special performance in which I represented my feelings for my friend, as a sort of a prayer, to tell her ‘thank you’ for wanting to be interested in something that involved expressing myself in my purest and most honest way. The piece is mostly an abstract stream of consciousness of my thoughts and feelings towards my new friend. The actual performance movements don’t have specific meaning but are more of a spontaneous interpretation of my feelings for her at the time. In the past, I have gotten compliments about the passion I have for my work, but having someone outside of my ‘art circle’—in the same place I was when I first discovered performance art—complimenting me on my work meant even more to me. It was as if—through her—I was able to see the full circle in which I had come; at first being someone who didn’t know anything about the concept of visual performance to becoming an artist that could touch someone. There’s also the fact that we might have a relationship that expands past being just ‘friends’ and the thought that my passion for art has contributed to that makes me proud to be part of the art community.
