---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: HUMAN_NATURE.jpg
photo_credit: Lorenzo Palmero
title: HUMAN NATURE
first_performed: first performed on May 21, 2016
place: Castello della Lucertola, Apricale, Italy
times_performed: performed three times in 2016
contributor: LUCIA PALMERO
collaborators: []
home: Ventimiglia, Italy
links:
- luciapalmero.com
contact: luciapalmero@libero.it
footnote: ''
tags:
- animal representation
- animality
- awareness of body perception
- body
- limitation
- limitation limitation of movement
- nature
- nature human
- research
- research performance-as-research
pages: 176-177
---

This performance was the result of my research into the realms of living species, focusing on the differences between the scientific definitions of vegetable and animal. What emerged as a major difference was that living beings are able to move. Right on the border between these two realms, man has been creating a third space where freedom of movement is self-limited.

The action:

I stood holding a living snail in my hand, with my feet planted in soil, while bound to a grate with rope. I started taking awareness of my body, by slowly moving my hands and arms then moving my feet and legs. I continued to move, taking awareness of the space, gradually increasing the rhythm of my movements until I reached the point where the rope totally unfolded.

During this part of the performance, the fight between my will to move away and the restriction of the rope began. I started to run from the point where the action began towards the public; at a certain point the rope would violently tug at me toward the ground. I kept on doing this until finally, exhausted, I let the snail onto the ground as a symbolic ritual of separation from the animal realm. I remained, occupying a limbo space between movement and limitation, and watched the snail slowly move away as it drew a trace of its passage.
