---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: Working_Like_A.jpg
photo_credit: Bianca Boragi
title: WORKIN LIKE A
first_performed: first performed on July 1, 2016
place: Yve Yang Gallery, Boston, MA
times_performed: performed twice in 2016
contributor: BIANCA BORAGI
collaborators: []
home: New Haven, CT
links:
- biancaboragi.net
contact: bianca.boragi@yale.edu
footnote: ''
tags:
- automation
- body
- choreography
- gesture
- labor
- power
- sculpture
- subjection of body mind-body
- table
pages: 252-253
---

The core of my art practice addresses the idea of the dislocated body, the alienated body, and the disruption in the casual or mundane world. The body has always been of notable interest to me, as an inner space we inhabit, subjected to various power structures. My sculptures are often an extension of the body or a part of it, reflecting a routine or an assimilated choreography of automatic gestures. The body is the recipient of actions and perceptions perpetuated under certain circumstances. My work seeks to create an alternative space that can communicate in an absurd and comic manner the subjected space in which one seeks to escape.

In “Workin Like A” I placed a dinner table and played romantic music in the gallery space. I entered the space dressed in my old waiter’s uniform. I wore all of my old shirts, seven in total. I attached the plastic dog collar cone around my head and filled it to the top with silverware, until I could not see out of it. Then I invited two volunteers to sit and have dinner. I waited on them, repeating the rote gestures of dinner service. The candle fell and the tablecloth caught on fire, and the bottle of wine fell over and spilled onto the white shirt of one of the guests. At the end, I cleared the table into my collar, including the wine, which leaked onto my shirt. Once I was done, I bowed all the way down. All the plates, utensils, and food crashed to the floor.
