---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: DIASTOLE.jpg
photo_credit: Toshiki Yashiro
title: DIASTOLE
first_performed: first performed on July 29, 2016
place: Tempting Failure International Festival, Hackney Showroom, London, England
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: CHELSEA COON
collaborators: []
home: Los Angeles, CA
links:
- chelseacoon.info
contact: chelsea.e.coon@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- awareness of body perception
- black holes
- body
- cleaning
- duration
- durational work
- gravitational waves
- knowledge
- knowledge reevaluation of
- maintenance
- mirror
- salt
pages: 316-317
---

On September 14, 2015 the mergence of two black holes in space occurred at 9:50:45 universal time which resulted in prominent spacial shifts that generated gravitational waves. This moment changed the way black holes have been understood, and prompted a revaluation of all that was considered fact, both within and beyond this area of study. Of interest was the breakdown of knowing, the immediacy that needed to be applied to understanding this occurrence, how that affected perception of the body’s position in space, among others. For my performance “Diastole,” a recording of the sound extracted from the black holes merging played at a high volume on loop for the entirety of a ten-hour duration. The sound contained three speeds, each lasting ten minutes. I lined the entire room with 100 cotton pads saturated with surgical cleaning fluid. I was positioned in the middle of two spotlights that came together. In the outskirt of the light I had placed ten used contact lenses equally spaced and filled with salt. Inside the light I had a surgical tray with another ten contact lenses lined up inside it, ten convex mirrors stacked in a pile to the right of the tray, a spool of white translucent thread, and ten needles lined up to the left of the tray. In the first hour within the perimeter of the light, I emptied out the contact lenses and moved the salt to make a thin line that barely reached to the next lens. The result was a circle about two grains of salt thick, which was erased and reconstructed throughout the work. In the second hour I took the first convex mirror, placed it in front of the surgical tray, took a needle and pricked the tip of my finger, placed the needle in front of the mirror, and when the blood came I took a contact lens from the surgical tray and filled the lens with my blood, then placed the lens on top of the convex mirror. I would then take the translucent thread and pull it across the tip of my finger changing the thread from white to red. This cycle was repeated every hour throughout the duration of the work.
