---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: THE_BIG_PLAY_brendan_devallance.jpg
photo_credit: Patricia O’Donnell Palden
title: THE BIG PLAY
first_performed: first performed on September 12, 2016
place: Dixon Place, New York, NY
times_performed: performed twice in 2016
contributor: BRENDAN DEVALLANCE
collaborators: []
home: Jersey City, NJ
links:
- sledbag.com/splooft
contact: brendan.devallance@lippincott.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- beauty
- instrument
pages: 376-377
---

In “The Big Play” I was trying to create a visual representation of what I view as beauty. Something to think about, something to laugh about. A collage of sounds and puppets, signs and symbols.

I entered the space wearing a suit and with a large foam hand over my own hand. My tie was blue with stars, my shirt was red and white stripes. In my mouth was a button similar to the start button on a YouTube video. I stood as though waiting for something, but nothing happened. I put a record on the record player which is on a stand. As the record played “Tangerine Dream,” I put on a mask made of doll arms. I read a spiel. Next, I set up an elaborate yet primitive device using the record player and a foam core necktie which simulates a pendulum. I banged out a beat on a wood block coinciding with the swinging neck tie. I did this for a few moments. Next, I played a song on the guitar about ice cube trays. I had a large picture of a tray and an elaborate sign that said “Ice Cube Tray.” I followed this with a sign over my chest that I revealed as I read another spiel. As I read, someone from the audience threw books at me. The sign I revealed asked for the book throwing to stop, stating that it was hurting me. I then put on a song, a tape loop of sorts. I had a mask made of a newspaper. I stuck a cigar through the newspaper into my mouth. I left the stage. The End.
