---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: EUROPEAN_PERFORMANCE_ART_MAFIA.jpg
photo_credit: Ramón Churruca
title: EUROPEAN PERFORMANCE ART MAFIA
first_performed: first performed on September 22, 2016
place: Beach between Marqués de Arriluce e Ibarra Kalea and Areetako Kaia, Basque
  Country, Spain
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: LAS FALSAS AMISTADES / FAUSTO GROSSI, RAMÓN CHURRUCA
collaborators: []
home: Bilbao, Spain
links: []
contact: speziogrossi@gmail.com / quanta48@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- class systems
- elitism
- fakeness
- imagination
- performance art
- photo
- photography
- picture
- poetry
- portrait
- theater
- theatres
- travel
- traveling
pages: 380-381
---

We perform as the performance group ‘Las Falsas Amistades’ (‘The Fake Friendships’). This performance was part of “Same Difference: Equinox to Equinox,” an international event involving the collaboration of 37 performance art groups to create a public group action. This was proposed and organized by Bbeyond from Belfast, Ireland.

For the performance we chose an angle of beach between

Marqués de Arriluce e Ibarra Kalea and Areetako Kaia

An angle of beach in Getxo for us so familiar

so weird and strong at same time

a place witness of other feats

to make things happen

a psyco-physical place

a place to share

so here we are

once again

to perform

We arrived at the beach with Ramona the dog and little else, determined instead to use and interact with the elements of the location. We stayed at the beach for twelve hours, throughout which one of us harassed the other continuously, vocally expressing paranoid thoughts he has about the class system in the art world—specifically the performance art world. He spoke of topics such as the elitist snobbery in performance art festivals; how the very same names appear repeatedly, like an exclusive circle of friends that travel and have fun together.

We documented the piece by taking photographs and shooting videos while posing as fake art fashion models and fake friends celebrating fakeness.

Using blue cloth as a symbol for the Croma Key, we created a hybrid action of performance, theater, video and poetry, similar to what we aimed to achieve with a previous work—our short film “Mefisto and Fausto.” Our goal was to create, through a tragic, playful and accessible action, a situation of emergence; where everything can happen as part of everyday life and an environment where judgement and reason is suspended, leaving space for imagination.

We don’t know if we achieved the goal.
