---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: Bliss_Drips_H2O.jpg
photo_credit: Merav Tzur
title: BLISS DRIPS H2O MOBILE BOUTIQUE®
first_performed: first performed on September 23, 2016
place: Ft. Mason, San francisco, CA
times_performed: performed five times in 2016
contributor: MERAV TZUR
collaborators:
- Melissa Santala
- Becky Lo Dolce
- Jeanne Buffa
- Lauren Woole
- Elizabeth Letcher
- Autumn Fjeld
- Lydia Wendt
- Lucy Pecora
home: Oakland, CA
links:
- meravtzur.com
contact: meravtzur@gmail.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- climate change
- commodity
- consumption
- economic
- economics
- economy
- exploration
- fetish
- narrative
- narrative personal
- profit
- travel
- traveling
- water
pages: 384-385
---

“Bliss Drips H20 Mobile Boutique®” is a fictitious water company providing custom-designed water concoctions. The project is a hybrid between a mobile ice cream cart and a custom-designed perfume boutique and serves as a traveling water outlet. Water experts dressed in company lab uniforms attended the cart and assisted visitors in choosing their individual water mixtures. In actuality all bottles contained tap water, only the labels distinguished the bottles from one another. A soundscape of water pouring, ice clinking in glasses, birds, and laughing children emanated from the cart, mimicking the familiar melodic chimes of an ice cream van.

Through projects like “Bliss Drips H20 Mobile Boutique®” Merav Tzur aims to produce a positive, creative public experience that is thought-provoking for both participants and audience. This project explores tactics in which high-end businesses attach narratives to their products in order to justify high prices. Performers constructed personal narratives around customers’ desires and needs—as high-end businesses often will—but the product was free, bringing into question such business schemes.

This project focuses on water commoditization and commodity fetishism, looks at the current economic climate in the Bay Area, and reminds people of the devastating drought in California and the ongoing effects of climate change.
