---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: THERESURRECTIONOFCARE.jpg
photo_credit: Hannah Beadman
title: THE RESURRECTION OF CARE
first_performed: first performed on October 15, 2016
place: Museum as Retail Space, Los Angeles, CA
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: THE GOLDEN DOME SCHOOL / EDGAR FABIAN FRIAS, SAEWON OH, LINDSAY MINNICH,
  CANDY PAIN, LAURA BERLIN STINGER, ELIZA SWANN
collaborators: []
home: Los Angeles, CA
links:
- golden-dome.org
contact: info@golden-dome.org
footnote: ''
tags:
- animality
- Bohemian Club
- capitalism
- care
- earth
- excess
- exploitation
- hierarchies
- power
- power hierarchies
- social hierarchies
pages: 428-429
---

The Golden Dome School, founded in 2013 to explore intersections of art practice, metaphysics, and ecology, has begun the tradition of performing “The Resurrection of Care” ritual each year. This is a short performance that invites Los Angeles artists and mystics to respond to our culture’s violence, ecocide, caustic hierarchies, and exploitative capitalism.

The notorious Bohemian Club, an ultra-exclusive all-male club, has members that includes business leaders, government officials, former US presidents, military elite, bankers, media executives, and other men in positions of power. Political and business deals are developed at the Club’s annual summer gathering at Bohemian Grove in Monte Rio, CA. An early meeting for the Manhattan Project took place there in 1942, which led to the development and use of the atomic bomb in World War II.

At the annual Bohemian Grove gathering, members stage the 135-year-old “Cremation of Care” ceremony on July 7, in which the body of ‘Care’ is symbolically cremated and banished from Bohemian Grove, paving the way for drunken celebration, male bonding, capitalistic scheming, warmongering, and—according to many reports—excessive public urination.

In response, the Golden Dome School developed “The Resurrection of Care,” an annual ritualistic play performed by Golden Dome artists. The play depicts the resurrection of the cremated body of caring, underscoring that life on Earth is worth caring for. Each year we reinstate our vow to care for ourselves and all of the people, plants, animals, water, earth, air, and spirits that are threatened with annihilation by unfettered greed and exploitation.
