---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: Invisibility_Cloak_(Prototype_1).jpg
photo_credit: Ignacio Pérez Pérez
title: INVISIBILITY CLOAK (PROTOTYPE 1)
first_performed: first performed on October 15, 2016
place: Fylkingen, Stockholm, Sweden
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: DAVID FRANKOVICH
collaborators: []
home: Helsinki, Finland / Toronto, Canada
links:
- davidfrankovich.com
contact: contact@davidfrankovich.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- bisexuality
- camouflage
- hair
- nudity
- nudity naked
- objects
- queer
- visibility
pages: 432-433
---

In Autumn 2016, I worked at the Saari Residency on a project responding to the problem of bisexual invisibility. I constructed prototypes for an “Invisibility Cloak” modelled after the ghillie suit, queering its intended camouflage function by using high-visibility materials.

A live demonstration was presented at Hej Hej PALS! Festival.

During the performance, I stood under a spotlight with my back facing the audience, naked except for a cloak made from reflective mylar strips and a pair of silver-colored stilettos. The mylar strips rose and fell with my breath, crinkling faintly. Around the edge of the spotlight were several objects: two sheets of mylar, a white tarp, a blue tarp and large ring covered with mylar strips. On the white tarp were several smaller objects: an LED bike light, a can of hairspray, a can of shaving cream and a neon green plastic bag. I picked up one mylar sheet by its centre, walked around it in a circle, then lowered it to the ground, where it came to rest in a cone shape. I crossed the spotlight to the other mylar sheet and swung it over my head several times before setting it down in another cone shape. I left my stilettos on the blue tarp and the mylar cloak on the floor next to it. I stood on the white tarp, holding the green bag. I pulled out a strip of mylar and tossed it to the floor, repeating until the bag was empty. I took the hairspray and sprayed it in my hair excessively, then over my entire body as I rolled over the mylar strips on the floor, which stuck to me. I put the ring of mylar strips around my neck. I picked up the white tarp, revealing that the centre had been cut out in a circle, which stayed in place on the floor, leaving the tarp with a hole in the middle. I draped it over a mylar sheet so that the cone poked up through the hole. I repeated this action with the blue tarp. I turned on the bike light and placed it, blinking, inside the left stiletto. I wore the right stiletto and put the can of shaving cream next to the left one. Using the heel of my stiletto, I pressed the button on the can. Shaving cream shot out, filling the left stiletto, until the can was empty.
