---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: THE_SPECIOUS_PRESENT.jpg
photo_credit: Henry Chan
title: THE SPECIOUS PRESENT
first_performed: first performed on November 3, 2016
place: Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto, Canada
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: NO OBJECT / LO BIL, BRANDA DALE, ADAM FILEK, DAVID FRANKOVICH, HOLLY
  TIMPENER, JOHANNES ZITS
collaborators: []
home: Toronto, Canada / Montreal, Canada / Helsinki, Finland
links:
- noobjectperformance.com
contact: info@noobjectperformance.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- body
- communication
- minimalism
- nudity
- nudity naked
- performance art
pages: 468-469
---

No Object is a multi-generational group of performance artists. We work with a minimal aesthetic, performing with our naked bodies in empty spaces, with no additional materials brought into the performance. We focus on the potential of the body. Our name reflects a desire to transcend the objectification of the naked body. In witnessing our performances, audience members move beyond seeing our work as a spectacle of nudity and are able to delve into a deeper awareness of their own potential embodiment.

The “specious present” is a term coined by William James as “the short duration of which we are immediately and incessantly sensible.” No Object proposes a future imaginary wherein our embodiment affects the social landscape. By intuiting the collective direction within our group and noticing what impulses direct us when we are on our own, we develop a sense of connection and agency in the external world.

For a duration of three hours, we alternated between two states. In the first, we were in close contact with one another, our naked bodies in tight sculptural formations that gradually transformed. In the second, we spontaneously burst out from our cluster, scattering throughout the space. As we fluctuated between these two states, we found each other again, by an intuitive and sensory awareness of our bodies in relationship to each other and our surroundings.
