---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: I_POISIONED_THE_CAMPUS_WATER.jpg
photo_credit: Patrick Porter
title: I POISONED THE CAMPUS WATER
first_performed: first performed on November 17, 2016
place: Pratt Institute Campus, Brooklyn, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: KAROLINA KUBIK
collaborators: []
home: Poznan, Poland / Brooklyn, NY
links:
- cargocollective.com/karolinakubik
contact: karolinakubik@yahoo.com
footnote: ''
tags:
- cities
- city
- college campus
- colonialism
- colonization
- discourse
- ecology
- health
- institutions
- oil
- safety
- taboo
- traffic
- transformation
- trust
- urban space
- water
- wellness
- wellness health
pages: 494-495
---

This was the first in a series of performances entitled I Poisoned The Campus Water I, II, & III, which was part of a larger body of work called These Are Not My People, I Never Should Have Come Here.

I found a mattress on the street and took it to an outdoor corner of campus, to a space behind several buildings that draws little foot traffic. I put the mattress on an elevated slab of concrete. I stuck a wooden pole into an open pipe mouth beside the concrete slab. I stood on the bed in a white formal dress and high heels and screamed, “this crazy Polish bitch poisoned the campus water!” over and over again as passing students watched me.

	Social/political function: 

	Water systems are a subject of social national trust. My approach was to consider water as a product and transformational object.

	Body as site: 

	Body as a water container, made of water. Internal experience relates with external as there is no life without water. 

	Various discourses I consider within the work:

	*landscape and colonialism (drinking water)

	*North Dakota Oil Pipeline Battle/indigenous peoples

	*poisoned water crisis in Flint (Ref. to Michael Moore)

	*terrorism

	*epidemiology/biology/health and safety

	*health insurance in US

	*ecology of the city/mental landscape

	*private sector of education/education as business

	*community life; taboos within university/campus life
