---
layout: project
volume: '2016'
image: WORKING_ON_IT.jpg
photo_credit: Geraldo Mercado
title: WORKING ON IT
first_performed: first performed on December 18, 2016
place: The Gateway, New York, NY
times_performed: performed once in 2016
contributor: POLINA RIABOVA / RONIT LEVIN DELGADO ROCHAS
collaborators: []
home: ''
links: []
contact: ''
footnote: ''
tags:
- duration
- durational work
- exploration
- labor
- labor emotional
- self-destruction
- trauma
- violence
- work
pages: 552-553
---

“WORKING ON IT” was created in collaboration with Ronit Levin Delgado Rochas to explore self-destruction as an inherent element to both hinderance and salvation in an attempt at coping with our individual traumas. The piece was performed in a dimly lit upstairs bar. Ronit opened with a durational action, applying and reapplying lipstick while kissing the curtain that enclosed her in a corner of the performance space illuminated by a hanging red light. Wearing a blue wig and big fur coat, I stepped out from beyond the audience’s vision and walked to the center of the room. I handed an audience member a flashlight to shine on me throughout the performance. Then I took out a compact mirror and began to pluck my neck and chin hairs at various positions on the floor while “The Ghost In You” by the Psychedelic Furs played on the phone lying next to me. Once the song was over, I removed my dress to reveal a blue sports bra and matching underwear with Tinder buttons on them, and began smoking, dancing, and smiling at the audience. The action culminated in me putting out a cigarette directly on my hip. I then looked at the audience and said, “These earrings were made by my friend Jacquelyn Stoter. She’s working on her website. She is WORKING on it. Right now.” I put “Dark Hearts and Heart Beats” by Garbage on my phone and began to do yoga poses. I would break and slap my body as hard as I could during the chorus of the song. I hit my thighs, stomach, hands, butt, and face. The performance ended when I walked over to the shower curtain which Ronit was still kissing, enclosed, and slowly burned a passage for her with my cigarettes. I then led her to the center of the room and said, “She is WORKING on it. Right now.”
